Hello everyone. Welcome to True Health Tuesdays. This is my first time, so this is all new for me. My name is Maria Jose Hmel and um I am so excited to be here. Um I have been a nutritionist for many many years. In fact, I used to be first a I think Atante already told you this for two Sabbaths in a row. So, if you didn't hear my bio, I'm not going to repeat it. Uh, you can go back to the last two Sabbaths and hear the bio. Um, but I used to be an engineer and then I changed my career to nutritionist.

I got a master's in nutrition. Then I got a master's in public health because I think that totally reinforced the you know public health aspects of nutrition. Then I went ahead and got a PhD in naturopathic health. But I absolutely uh incorporated nutrition into that and all the true um remedies that come from God. So, I am just so excited to be able to share with you the true remedies that God has given us in and in particular the nutrition aspects because that is really what I love the most. that I will try to incorporate all of the things that God has given us, especially those eight gifts, eight true remedies, eight principles of health that God has given us in order to be healthy, to prevent all these diseases that are the most prevalent today.

Now, I promised you last Sabbath that I would talk about the 10 days to better health. Before we get started though, I want to say a word of prayer and then we'll go ahead and talk about 10 days to better health. So, let's pray. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for this opportunity to come together and to use this amazing technology to be able to spread the word about this wonderful health message that you have given us. And we ask you to be with us. We ask you to bless this wonderful program and that that all the words that we share will be able to help those who need to hear it and that these words will be able to give them hope that you have given us a message that can bring health and healing to so many of us.

We ask you for your blessing in Jesus name. Amen. So thank you again for those of you have to who have connected for being here and uh I am so excited. I want to tell you that the reason why I call this 10 days to better health uh is because first of all before I started this job that I currently have I'll tell you a little bit about it. Before though I started working in this in my current job, I have been sharing in my ministry about the Daniel what I call the Daniel challenge for years. I want to say like 10 or 15 years.

I have it in my website and I want to share it with you. anyone who wants to download a PDF that I have in my website called the Daniel Challenge. It's a 10day menu with recipes, whole food, plant-based. I call the Daniel Challenge and I've had it for in my website for so many years. And this is something that I've been teaching forever, 10 days, because you know what? It's in the Bible. Many, many of you know that in the first chapter of the book of Daniel in the Old Testament, there's a story of young men, these young men who were in Babylon, who were actually in the court of the king of Babylon.

And they were going to be trained to be, you know, part of the court of Babylon because they were, you know, found to be smart and they were going to be uh trained and uh they were going to be given the food of the king. But these Hebrew young men, they decided they were not going to contaminate their bodies uh with what they saw was the food that was going to be given to them because they already knew that God had given them. And you know all of us that we read the Bible, we know that there are certain foods that we, you know, if we want to keep our bodies healthy, we are we are not to eat.

And they already knew that. And they decided not to contaminate their bodies with the king's food. And they were only going to eat eat and if you read the Bible, it says uh they were going to eat vegetable foods and drink water. And uh the person who was in charge of them was kind of worried about them actually and said, "Oh no." Uh you are not going to be very strong and this is going to be terrible for me. I'm going to get in trouble. And Daniel in his wisdom said, "You know what? Why don't you put us, you know, in why don't you test us and see in 10 days who's going to be stronger?"

And he said, "Well, okay. Let's see what happens in 10 days." I think he must have been somewhat skeptical. Okay, let's see. 10 days. You know, some there's some if you download the PDF, it's in my website, by the way, and it's I think it's already been put there, so you can download it. Go to my website. I actually in my website put the the um references to some journals, these uh articles in actual journals, you know, like scientific journals. There's these people who have written journals who say that this story in the Bible is the first uh controlled study ever done in history because in 10 days you had two groups that you can actually compare and in a short amount of time only 10 days you can actually see the difference.

You see like in science when they do studies they have two groups. Usually when they do control studies they have two groups and they in a certain amount of time they compare those groups at the end and they can see the difference and if there is a difference and they can see okay we did this experiment and we found a difference. Uh and Takara you and your mom use a 10 Daniel the 10day Daniel fast probably 10 days I assume and it really works. Good for you. Good for you. Because you know what? God has given us these bodies and he has told us how to how to best take care of them.

From the very beginning, as I mentioned on Sabbath, from the very beginning, first page of the Bible already tells us how God designed our bodies with the best fuel to put in our bodies. Right? Just like when you go buy a a truck. Let's say you go buy a truck at a dealer and the truck is a, you know, diesel truck. Are you going to put gasoline if it's a diesel truck? You probably will not because you know what's the best fuel for that truck? And if you put the wrong fuel, it's probably going to break down.

Same thing with us. We were given a manual called the Bible. And in that manual it says how to best take care of this body and how much more important this body than a truck. I don't know what do you think. So I'm going to start sharing some slides with you um about this presentation tonight. 10 days to better health and uh how the biblical diet, what I'm going to call maybe also the Genesis 129 diet, because it's literally in the first page of the Bible, just about every Bible, unless it's really big print, it might be in the second page, but most likely will be in the first page of the Bible.

Genesis 1:29. Just look it up. It says right there what kind of uh diet was given originally. Okay, originally the plan had to change. Uh it was more likely because of it, you know, it was almost like an emergency situation because when Noah came out of the ark, guess what? How was the earth when Noah came out of the ark? Was it in really good condition? Do you think after over a year of it being flooded, do you think it was in really good condition to actually, you know, eat out of it? Probably not.

So, in that situation, there was an emergency situation where God had to actually give permission to human beings to eat animal foods. But it was not the ideal. It was not the original plan. The original plan is it right there. Genesis 1:29. Plants. That's the original. Okay. Now, let me share with you something first of all that I want to establish from the very beginning. I might repeat this many many times in other uh future presentations because it's so foundational. It is so important, especially nowadays, that there's so much misinformation out there that I really want to make sure that both you and anyone else who watches this in the future knows that everything that I share and that I want you to know and and be sure that everything that I am sharing is biblical.

number one and it that it is in harmony with the spirit of prophecy that has been given to us that I believe is a gift from God. So the rule number one that I always utilize for any presentation rule number one is that everything that I share with you will always be to the law and the testimony that is found. This verse you probably many of you already know. Isaiah 8:20 says the following. You probably many of you already know this uh verse probably already you know by heart to the law and the testimony.

If they do not speak according to this word it is because there is no light in them. So to me it even just not just like biblical concepts, theological concepts, but to me this applies to health concepts. I don't know if you agree with that, but in my heart I think this applies to health concepts. Everything that we hear that we see YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, whatever you hear out there, if it's not in harmony, hear me out, please. if it is not in harmony with the Bible. And for those of you who are Seventh Day Adventist, you know what I'm talking about when I say the Bible and the spirit of prophecy, the testimony of Jesus, as the Bible says in in in uh Revelation.

It says the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. If it's not according to this, there is no light in it. And the reason why I'm making so much emphasis on this is because I see so much stuff right now on social media and I'm talking about within the seventh day of this church obviously outside of the church is even worse. I mean, it's just like there's all kinds of stuff obviously, but I'm talking about unfortunately uh there's so much much misinformation being spread. And the reason why I'm so making so much emphasis right now is because when we spread misinformation when it comes to health, it can harm people.

That's why I'm so worried about this. If we start spreading things that are not true, they might even harm people. I am worried about this. And it's our message. If we have 7th Adventists, some of us who have been in the church for decades and we don't know our message. I'm worried about that. You know, how come we don't know our message? I thought we did. you know, some people I thought we we we did and I guess maybe we have forgotten it. What's happening? You know, so I think we really ought to uh review our message or go back to it and learn it again.

I'm not sure what's going on. So I'm going to try to go back to the very essentials of what is our you know maybe the foundations of what God has given us more so than ever to these times because right now in these the last you know times of earth's history it's becoming more and more important. We'll be talking about this throughout, you know, maybe future programs today also maybe and through future programs and why it's so important maybe even so more in these last days to be even more uh knowledgeable and even following even more more more the uh the health message where it's so much more important even today.

Okay, so that's the first rule number one. But the rule number two and watch this. Okay, you might wonder why. Okay, but I'll show you why. Rule number two is to be ve okay. Oh, by the way, I forgot that I wanted to show you the the number two, the two texts that I think are maybe very uh foundational, very maybe very uh essential maybe for those of you who really want to know about health and and uh want to maybe know what's written and the spirit of prophecy as far as okay, how can I get like a really quick, you know, um summary of what uh the spirit of prophecy says?

about health. I would you know recommend these two books uh councils on food uh and diet and the ministry of healing. These are books are not very long especially ministry of healing if you have never read it. I think you can even read it for free. Just download the app LG White read it for free or buy the book at a store online whatever. These are not hard to read and they're just so beautiful. Beautiful. So I would recommend you read that. Okay. So the second thing I really really want to um the second principle I want to share with you before we enter into the uh health aspects of the of this of the um of the diet is this science.

And you might wonder why why are we talking about this? And it's because of this. If we are not um sharing with others things that are scientifically valid, we might not we might lose credibility. If we share with people who are not Adventists things that are not scientifically valid, we might share we might lose credibility. We we're not always sharing things with people who are Adventist or Christian. So if we're uh sharing things that are not always validated with scientific um evidence, people are not going to always believe us.

And um let me share something with you. This is from Spirit of Prophecy. Do you see what it says right there about, you know, in the book Christian Education, it says knowledge is uh knowledge of science of all kinds is power is power. And it is the purpose of God that um advanced science is taught in our schools. Interesting. We should be teaching science, real science in our schools. So it's not God God is not against science. I just wanted to let you know. I just wanted to share with you that we should not uh be against science.

We should actually uh look for good quality science uh and share things that are good evidence. All right. Okay. So, I just really w wanted to let you know we should also in the Bible even says we should really use common sense. We should be wise as serpents and we should be prudent. We should be prudent. We should really not think in black and white terms. Okay? Just wanted to share those things with you before we get going. All right. Now these are the 10 leading causes of death in the US. It has not changed for so long.

The only new thing in the uh 10 leading causes of death is co. It's the only new thing that has come up in the last five years as you know. But other than that and it's gone down because it it got to up up to number three. It's like the highest, you know, uh, place it got and then it's gone down, but still up in the first 10. But the number one never changed. Number two never changed. Number one is heart disease. Number two is cancer. And of course, you have uh strokes up there. You have diabetes.

You have Alzheimer's. You have all these different diseases that have to do with lifestyle for the most part. And one of the most important parts of lifestyle is diet. There's other things. There's exercise. There's sleep. There is stress. There's many things not just diet. You can eat a perfect diet and possibly not sleep or exercise or drink water. And your health is not going to be perfect if you are not doing those things. Even if you eat a perfect diet. But diet is probably the most important thing because we eat uh more than we do other things.

We we usually eat at least two three maybe four maybe more times a day. Uh we are going to have uh questions and answers at the end of the program. Now in the program that I do for work, we measure certain things that you see in the um on the screen. uh we measure people's cholesterol actually we measure people's lipid panel we measure their cholesterol total cholesterol LDL HDL we measure their triglycerides all of this fasted by the way in our little machine it's a portable machine we're not very fancy we don't have a lot of money but we do have a little portable machine that measures their lipid panel as well as their glucose okay now if you go to your doctor you'll probably get Another thing maybe you might get your A1C that's a little different than your uh fasting glucose.

A1C is more of a um an average for 3 months where whereas the glucose is that the measure for that one day. We only measure glucose but we also measure their blood pressure which is very important and we measure their weight and their height and we calculate their BMI. All of this gives us an idea, not very precise, but at least an idea of what their risk might be for certain diseases. CBD by the way stands for cardiovascular disease. So that as I mentioned in the previous uh slide is the number one cause of death.

So that's why you know we look for that. Um, but also there's other things like diabetes, Alzheimer's, and you know, other things that uh cancer that all of these things might put us as a risk um for. And then in our program, we give them a menu and we give them recipes for 10 days. Right now, some of these people have never heard. This is completely new. A plant-based diet. What? What are you talking about? Never heard of this before. Right. So, by the way, we these recipes come with a QR code.

We don't have like tons and tons of money to be printing 40 pages of recipes. So, we give them QR codes. They look it up. You know, there comes the recipe. We also send them every day a little video. It's only like three minutes just to kind of keep them going. And it gives them a tiny little bit of, you know, motivation, a little bit of information about not just diet, but also, you know, a little bit of exercise, the sunlight, you know, water, different things. Uh, just every day I give them a call uh during the week to see how they're doing.

Did you watch the video? You know, do you have any questions? Uh, the next Sunday, you it's on Sundays, by the way, because people don't work on Sundays usually, so it's easier than during the week. Next Sunday, I give them a a little class like this. talk to them what I'm going to talk to you today more or less the reason why all these things happen all these diseases and how they're all connected and the third Sunday we do these um measurements again that's it and what we see is amazing honestly we do see everybody improves at least one thing in those 10 to 14 days honestly there's 14 days in between those two measurements uh but everybody everybody study about 99% of people improve in at least one thing but we've seen amazing amazing results.

Um some people improve like 50% in like their LDL cholesterol. LDL cholesterol is our best u biioarker is what goes down the fastest in about just about everybody. Total cholesterol is the second one and glucose is the third. It's just what we see uh improves the best with this kind of uh intervention. And I'll explain to you why right now. I'm going to tell you why these are all connected. Okay. So, what's the underlying cause of all these metabolic diseases? How are they connected? Well, here's this is what I explained to people the second Sunday.

It's and and once, you know, honestly, when I when I um share this with people, I could see in their faces that when they get it, you can see in somebody's face when they're like, get it, right? like I you know I have the the the benefit of actually seeing them live you know in person and you can see that reaction in people and it's you can see you can see right there in their eyes oh wow okay now I get it and that makes a huge difference so what you see right now in the screen is my little representation it's very crude you know it's very simple representation of a cell, a human cell, very very simple drawing of a human cell.

And what you see right there on the right, I think it's right hand side of your screen page probably a G. That G represents, as you see, glucose. You probably heard the word glucose. I hope, right? You have, right? Glucose. You've heard the word glucose. Yeah, I hope. Yeah. Tell me if you have. Please put in the in the chat if you have glucose. Now many people think glucose. Oh, must be a bad thing. Glucose. Oh, glucose almost scared of glucose. Well, glucose shouldn't be scary because glucose is fuel for your cells.

We talked about food as being our fuel. Well, glucose is fuel for the cells. It's absolutely necessary. It's it's vital. The all the cells need glucose. The problem was when there's too much. Yes, you have. Obviously. Yes. Thank you. You have heard of glucose. Everybody has heard of glucose. Now, some people think glucose is a bad thing immediately, but it's not. Glucose is absolutely necessary. If you didn't have it, you would die. But the problem is when there is too much. How does that happen?

Well, so you see the G right there. That's a let's say let's pretend it's a molecule of glucose. Well, for it to work as a fuel. Where does it have to go? It has to go [Music] inside of that cell. It doesn't work if it's outside, right? It's just like when you put fuel in your car. Well, that gasoline is not going to do any good if you just spill it out on on the on the floor on the concrete, right? It's not going to work. It has to go inside the tank. Same thing. This glucose has to get in. Well, how does it get in?

Because do you see that thing around that little pink thing around that glucose? That's my representation of the cellular. There's a membrane around the cell. It It doesn't just let the glucose in. You know, it's kind of like your church. If you go into a a a church, you know, when I teach this class, I do it at a clinic and I tell my people, "Well, this clinic when I got here in the morning was closed. It, you know, I can't just come in. Somebody has to open it for me. And what do they need?" Well, they need a key to get in.

Well, same thing with the cells. There needs to be a door for that glucose to get in. There's just no there's no free access for glucose anyway. It doesn't just come in. There needs to be access to it like a door, if you will. There's these receptors. Think of them as doors, okay? The glucose doesn't just come in. Somebody has to open the door. So, when I go into the clinic in the morning to do this program for, you know, our participants, well, the security person basically is the one who opens the door with a key.

Well, who is the key? The cell has mitochondria. Yes, mitochondria. Takara, you're very right. Mitochondria are like little furnaces, right? That actually use up the glucose. They're like the engine, if you will, burn up this fuel. All right, but first the glucose has to get in. So, how does it get in? Who opens the door? Who opens the door with the key? So many of you already know the answer. Who opens the door? So I represented it as this little stickman. Do you know who it is? Oh, you already probably can read it.

Oops. You read it, right? Oh, Takara has already studied it. Good for you. You already know all the answers. All right. Well, the stickman is representing what? Well, you already have the answer right there, too. It's insulin. So insulin is a hormone produced by that little organ that you see right there too. Organ is called the pancreas. So the pancreas produces a hormone called insulin. And one of the jobs of insulin is to open the door just like the security man opens the door for me in the morning.

They open the door and I can get in. Well, insulin opens the door for glucose to get in the door, just like Takara said, to get in and be used as the fuel. All right, everything is going well so far. This is all working as it should. This is how it's supposed to work. But nowadays, things don't work as they should because obviously there's diseases. So, what's going on? Why is it not working? I'll tell you nowadays there is a problem. The problem is Okay. Well, you already know. Well, we have a problem with obesity and overweight.

Well, you know, we do not live like our ancestors. As you already know, our ancestors worked with their bodies a lot more. They worked the land. Many of them they, you know, when I do this illustration with my participants, many of their ancestors literally worked the land, right? They literally grew their own food and maybe even cut wood to cook it. And the women had to probably wash the clothing up out in the river. I mean I take pictures uh put to put them in my slides and women washing clothes in the river and then they carry them back.

This is how people used to do it. And so think about all the physical activity that our ancestors had to do just to live. They didn't have to go to gym. They just did things and that's how they, you know, kept their muscle mass. They walked everywhere. They just did a lot more activity and they didn't have McDonald's, Burger King, you know, Kentucky Fried Chicken. So, they ate a much better diet. The caloric intake wasn't even the same. I mean, they didn't have a highly processed foods that were highly addictive.

By the way, that's maybe a topic for another day. The addictivity of foods. Okay. So nowadays we have a problem with 70% of our population is either obese or has overweight. We already know that the problem is not the visible hear me out. The problem is not the visible, you know, love handles. Those that's just visible, right? Like the visible adapose tissue, if you will, that's not even the problem. That's subcutaneous atapose tissue fat. Okay, that's not that bad because it's not the most dangerous fat.

Actually, the most dangerous fat is invisible. Did you know this? The most dangerous fat number one, visceral fat, is the fat that's actually inside around the organs. That's very risky actually. But there's another type of fat. I don't know if you've heard about this. I don't know if you have heard. There's a type of lipids called intra. Okay, here's a very technical word. You don't have to know this word, but I'm just going to name it so that you can look it up if you want. Intrammyiocellular lipids.

Fancy word. What is intrammyiocellular lipids? Well, that fancy word means fat inside the cell. You can't see it. Totally invisible. You don't even know it's there because it's inside the cells. You don't see it. You don't know it's there. But that fat inside the cells does not belong. Now, why does it get there? Because we eat too many calories and we don't burn them. You see what I'm saying? too many calories, not burning the calories well. So they this, you know, extra calories accumulate in several places, the subcutaneous fats, all those love handles.

Okay, there's that. But also the internal fat that puts you at a higher risk for metabolic disease. No bueno. And then there's the fat inside the cells, intrammyiocellular lipids. Well, what's the problem with that? the extra fat inside the cell. Do you see what's going on here in this uh in this little drawing that I made? It's blocking the what now? What is it blocking? What's blocking? It's blocking the door, you guys. It's blocking the door. That's the problem. Takara, thank you. She knows. She's already studied that.

She said she knows this is the problem. The extra fat inside the cells blocks the door. It's as if you put a chewing gum in the hole where the key goes. So, what happens if you can't put the key inside? You go in and try to open the door. Can you get in? You can't get in. So now, is it because you don't have the key though? Is it lack of insulin the problem? No, it's not lack of insulin. See, there's a misunderstanding sometimes that diabetes comes because there's no insulin. There is insulin. At least at the beginning, there's plenty of insulin.

There's plenty of insulin. The problem is the insulin doesn't work because there's something blocking it. There's something blocking the insulin. You see what I'm saying? Not lack of insulin. Is insulin not working because something is blocking it. What's blocking it? What's blocking it? Intramiocellular lipids. The word lipid is fat. Lipid equals fat. It's this fat inside the cell. Where where does it come from? Either the fat we eat or the fat we carry. Because there's skinny people. There's skinny people.

Yes or no? Is there skinny? Are there skinny people who also get diabetes who also get high um blood pressure or high cholesterol? Does that happen? Yes, it happens. Why? Because a person who is thin or can also eat a highfat diet. It seems like it they can eat everything they want. They don't gain a pound. But how's the health inside of them? How's that? How are their sales? See, they can be paying the price of that down, you know, 10 10 20 years. I don't know. I don't know. All right. So, here's what's going on.

The pancreas sees this little uh mess going on here and saysoop, you know, red alert. I need to figure out how to help this this situation. So, what can the pancreas do? Well, it just pumps out more insulin, more stigmen, more keys. Is that the problem though? Was the problem lack of keys? Lack of stickman. That wasn't even the problem to begin with. So, you know, the illustration is not 100%. You know, so it actually what happens is it does help a tiny little bit. So, it's almost like you're trying to force some of the insulin through the windows, let's say.

All right. So, you know what? your blood sugar does come down tiny little bit because by the way okay so I forgot to tell you something so if this insulin is not going inside the cell well where is it staying then if it's not going inside the cell where is it if it's not inside then it's outside what's where is outside what's outside what's outside where do you think it's outside. What's outside, you guys? This is outside. People come into our clinic, fasted. Sunday morning, they haven't had breakfast.

We take a little tiny little drop, put it in the little strip. What should be a good fasting glucose? M let's see what if the fasting glucose is 105. What do you think? Is that good? No bueno. Yes, Nicole. Thank you. It's in the bloodstream. If it's not inside the cells, it's in the bloodstream. So, we take that little blood drop, put it in the strip. Whoops. It's in the bloodstream. It's not inside the cells where it should be. So what does the pancreas do when this situation starts to happen? The pancreas goes in red alert.

So at the beginning of the situation when this is starting to happen, the pancreas tries to tries to help. All right? And how does it try what what does it do to try to help? It pumps out more insulin. So this this um situation when the uh pancreas pumps out more insulin is called hyperinsulinemia. You can actually go get tested for this hyperinsulinemia. So what happens is well there's all this insulin in your body and some of that block glucose does come down. So, okay. So, maybe you don't have diabetes yet.

So, maybe your blood sugar is not 150. Maybe it's 98. Maybe it's 98. So, okay. So, let's say you go to the doctor and it's 98 or 97. So, what if you went to the doctor tomorrow? Fasting glucose 97. What would the doctor say to you or the nurse or whoever? What would the doctor tell you if your blood sugar is 97? Someone 97. 97. Come on. Is it good, bad, normal, high? Pre-diabetes, diabetes, what? Someone. What's 97? Tell me. 97 is I'm waiting. What's 97? Pre-diabetes. No bueno. GG's like, "Oh, what is 97?"

I don't know. What's 97? Is it normal? What would the doctor say? Good, Deborah. Thank you. The doctor will say, "Good. Guess what? You don't have pre-diabetes. You don't have diabetes." Oh, good. Go home. Keep doing what you're doing. All good. Is it okay? Look at this slide. Are you looking at the slide? Is this all good? Is this normal to you? Like does it look Well, obviously it's not. This is not exactly what's happening. It's all like not cartoony like that inside your body, right? But the pancreas pumping out extra insulin, your glucose not going in, all the fat inside the cells.

Is this good? Is this good? Does this look normal to you? How can this be good? But the doctor says, "Oh, it's good." The nurse, PA, whatever, nurse practitioner, they'll tell you normal. Whatever you're doing, keep doing it. All good. Congrats. What? Huh? No. What's going on here? I'll tell you what's going on. This condition, look at this. Okay, look at this, please. This condition has a name. This condition, Takara already said it, you guys. I don't know if you read it. I don't know if you're keeping up with her comments.

This condition has a name. It's called insulin resistance. insulin resistance. Why? Because the insulin is right here. It's not lacking. It's there. It's not lacking. Okay? The insulin is there trying to do its job, but it can't. It's not working. Why isn't working again? Why isn't it working? Do you see this here? This yellow blob. What's the yellow blob again? The fat. Is it the Coke that you drank? Is it the extra cookie? Cuz that's another misunderstanding. It's only the sugar that causes the diabetes.

Nothing else. You can have all the fried chicken you want. It will not give you What? You see, there's so many misunderstandings here. Now, I'm not saying the Coke's not going to it's going to be any good because all that coke, all that sugar, it's going to go into the liver. The liver is going to make it into fat. Yes, the sugar becomes fat in the liver. No bueno. But it's not only the sugar. See, that's what I'm trying to tell you. There's more to it, right? The fat also can do this because fat doesn't need to be converted to fat.

The fat is already fat. The sugar becomes fat. The fat is fat. No bueno. Both of them are no bueno. Now, what are we going to do you guys? Here's another picture just from a textbook. This is more like the classical textbook picture, not my drawing. But you see here, normal cell, insulin resistance, and here are the block channels, the closed doors basically where the glucose cannot go in. But I want to show you this one. This one has the yellow blobs. You see them? These yellow balls basically.

And right here's the technical word right there. Intramiocellular lipid. Now you can go home. Well, you are home. You can actually look it up. Okay. If you in case you're you know what what is this in my cellular you can look it up okay well I want to tell you that this whole insulin resistance thing is not just for diabetes what you see in the screen in the screen and maybe uh it can be blown up I don't know if it can be make any bigger so that people can actually see the uh the words more closely but I want to tell you that um insulin resistance has much it's has many more complications than just um than just diabetes.

It's actually related to a whole host of diseases as you can see. you see that all the different types of diabetes. There's I don't even have time right now to explain what type diabetes type 1.5 is honestly because there's diabetes that is related to your eating and there's diabetes that has actually to or your lifestyle has diabetes actually is um autoimmune diabetes and diabetes type 1.5 is an autoimmune diabetes. Then there's, you know, pre-diabetes, gestational diabetes, cancer, cancer, coronary artery disease, and there's just all these things.

I can't even read them honestly because I'm it's too small for me. Let me see. Hypertension, aththerosclerosis, obesity, high cholesterol, fatty liver disease, PCOS. I hope you know that. PCOS is poly uh polycystic uh ovary uh syndrome Alzheimer's disease uh neuropathy blindness that's that comes from the retinopathy up here kidney failure blindness erectile dysfunction type 1 diabetes all of these things insulin resistance goes way far beyond just diabetes do you see all of these things are related that's why I'm telling you Everything is connected.

Atherosclerosis, hypertension, cancer, Alzheimer's disease. By the way, look up the the term type three diabetes. If you don't believe me, type three diabetes. I'll just tell you what it is because you know we're here. Type three diabetes, Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease. Type three diabetes. Because the researchers have found that you can have insulin resistance in the brain. The liver becomes fatty when it's resistant and then it has high cholesterol, high glucose, high fat. So now you have hyper lipidmia, hyper cholesterolmia, hypoglycemia.

And this uh this excess cholesterol goes all over the place and it starts to accumulate inside of the vessels and now you have inflammation. Now you have to take statins and now you have fatty liver. Oh my goodness, it's a huge mess, right? It's a huge mess. It's all connected. I just wanted to establish that it's all connected. That's why the same food and the same diet helps everything. But this is the cause. It's excess fat and we're not burning the fat. We're eating too much fat. We're accumulating too much fat.

We're not burning it. So it's lack of exercise. So it's a lifestyle. Now I want you to see this table. Maybe take a picture. So take out your phone and take a picture. This is from the uh book Goodbye Diabetes from Dr. Wes Youngberg from Lumal Linda. I haven't seen this table anywhere else. Uh, and it's wonderful because it doesn't just show the pre-diabetes, advanced pre-diabetes, and then the diabetes, right? We already know this. The doctor tells you this stuff after, you know, 126 fasting diabetes.

If you have more than 100 fasting, it's pre-diabetes. And he actually breaks it up into advanced pre-diabetes. That's great. That's awesome. But look at this. Nobody tells you this stuff over here. You see what I'm saying? He says high blood sugar, stage one, stage two. What? What is this? Why does it call it high blood sugar? Why? Well, because he noticed when he worked with people in Guam, actually, he went to Guam and he worked with young people who were already suffering the consequences of high blood sugar without having diabetes or pre-diabetes, but they were having the high consequences of insulin resistance, at least levels of fasting blood sugar.

And he realized, well, these people have insulin resistance because their blood sugar is higher than optimal. You see right here, optimal. This is the optimal. If you go above 84, well, what's going on? You might already have high blood pressure or high cholesterol, high triglycerides, or something else. It's because you might have insulin resistance. So, take a picture because nobody else is going to tell you this unless you buy the book. Good. buy the book, Goodbye Diabetes. You might find it at the ABC or just order it online, probably.

All right, so there's this. And then there's another um even better one that I think he partnered with some people and came up with this one. Wow, this is amazing, you guys, because this one shows you the risk increase. Wow, look at you guys. increase heart uh disease risk at stage two meaning at fasting blood sugar starting even minor actually it starts at 85 see minor and then it starts to really come up here 95 because there's already insulin resistance there. That's why we have to start paying attention early.

That's why the food is important. Now, talking about the number one cause of death, this was found in the 90s. Dr. Dean Ornish found that a lowfat vegetarian diet along with exercise, stress management, also they had to stop smoking if they did smoke. But up until the 90s, they thought if you had coronary artery disease, you could never get rid of it. Once you had it, you had it forever. But he put people on a diet, stress management, and exercise. Look at the difference. This is before and this is after.

Now, what we're looking at here is a artery. And what we're seeing inside is the plaque. And do you see the difference here? they were able to start to lower the artery. Okay, so with the diet, you can start reversing heart disease. That's amazing. And you can see here that maybe taking out the meat, putting beans and soy in your diet can help. Wow, that's great. Same here. Okay, so I just wanted to show you. It's been found in many um studies now back almost 100 years ago. Blood pressure here in the United States, they think, "Oh, it's normal to have blood pressure when you're old.

It's just normal. It happens. It's normal. It has to happen. It just happens." Okay. But 100 years ago in Africa, they went and just went to these, you know, very uh rural places in Africa. And what did they find? What did they find? Look at the age groups. 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, over 60. And look at the blood pressures. 123, 122, 126, 126, 125, 118, 113, 109, 106, 105, and diastolic 81, 79, 83, 84, 85, 81, 70, 70, 60, 66. What's going on with ages going what? down. It's the opposite. But by the way, they're comparing with Europe and North America which going up.

You see 125 13 140 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 to 140. Same with diastolic going up in Africa going down. It's the opposite. So does blood pressure really have to go up with age? Is it normal? It doesn't have to go up with age. And now we're tell they're telling us guess what plant-based diet can actually treat hypertension diabetes. Oh, I forgot to tell you by the way Dr. McDougall did a study where they in seven days. Look at what they found. Seven days. This is blood pressure.

Okay. 1,615 people. At the beginning of the seven days, the average was 1590 over 94. at the end. 136 over 83 in just 7 days. Whole food plant-based. And by the way, you want to also, we talked about this salt. You want to reduce the salt because it can prevent 22% of fatal strokes and 16% of heart attacks. Where's the salt? Oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy. Here are the things where the salt is found. By the way, they put chicken. You know that raw chicken has salt in it? Did you know? I wanted to show you something.

They put salt in raw chicken. They inject uh salt water into chicken. I don't know if you knew that. Okay, these are all other terrible, terrible foods. They have way, way, way too much sodium. Too much. Okay, diabetes. I wanted to show you this is just the standard you know ADA diet. They force us nutritionists to give people this diet practically but in two weeks they measured uh the results of the plant-based diet compared with the ADA diet. This diet is based on portions portion portion portion.

And this diet you can eat as much as you want basically. And after two weeks, this group had more weight loss, more reduction in the glucose, and no portion control. They could eat however much they want. The only difference was the proteins. So instead of eating the usually the 88 diet is white meats over here, beans, tofu, that kind of stuff. So that was it. That was the difference. Now we tell people try to eat low glycemic. In other words, carbohydrates that don't elevate the blood sugar. That's what we tell our participants.

And as far as triglycerides, that's the another thing we measure and we tell people to stay away. This is just basically junk food. Honestly, stay away from junk food because it will elevate. Sugar is number one that elevates triglycerides and other things, you know, alcohol of course, you know, other other medications that also there's some medications that elevate triglycerides and that's what you want to be under 150. Um, but especially and I mean we've had people that have over 500. So triglycerides are not as dangerous as cholesterol, but we don't really want high triglycerides.

So what to do to avoid high triglycerides? Stay away from the sugar number one and eat a low glycemic diet. So this is what we recommend. This is basically the bottom line. We tell people eat a lot of fiber. So whole grains, legumes. Legumes are the beans. Eat all the beans you want. In fact, I recommend people, especially if they have diabetes or pre-diabetes, to eat half a cup of beans in every meal. You know why? Because the beans are the number one source of fiber, especially soluble fiber. And that fiber helps to keep blood sugar at a stable level all throughout the day.

So, people with diabetes and pre-diabetes benefit very much with having a half a cup of beans in every meal. lots of fiber, fruits and vegetables. In fact, I don't know if you remember that that plate that I showed, half the plate really should be fruits or vegetables. The plant proteins again come from the legumes, but and by the bean, by the way, soy is a bean, so that's also a legume. And the green vegetables by percentage all honestly have a lot of um on a lot of protein. We tell our people to eat try to not eat a lot of like a lot a lot of bread because they do have a lot of you know um we we do have a lot of participants who are uh diabetic.

So if they eat more of the whole grains like the quinoa and you know that kind of thing it will help not to elevate their blood sugar so much because we only had them for 14 days. So we try to help them as much as possible. The fats, one ounce a day. Avocados and nuts and seeds are what we try to really um emphasize. And we only can, you know, give them a good diet, but we try to tell them to also incorporate things um with lifestyle. And this is really the only type of eating pattern that helps with everything.

you know all the different conditions all of them it covers all of them and the only side effects are good so what can I say you know there's really no better diet so the two principles are to try to take away all the processed foods so sugars flowers too much oil especially fl you know white flowers and the animal foods we really asked them to for the 10 days to stay away from all animal foods. It's really hard for people to really get it because most people don't even know. Uh they're not they're not used to this.

This is completely new for a lot of people and they don't even do it. Honestly, a lot of people don't follow it 100%. But even if they follow it 90%, they still get a benefit. Uh that's what we see anyway. So this is the diet that God has given us. Whole food plant-based. It's beautiful. It attracts the eyes because God has given us colorful fruits and vegetables. The colors are pigments and the pigments are antioxidants. That's why they're so attractive to us. They are the beautiful colors that God has given us.

And again, the proportions I really try to tell people to eat half of the uh plate fruits or vegetables. I want to end with this um this verse that comes from John 10:10. I came so that you may have life and live it more abundantly. Honestly, that's what God wants for us. He's not giving us a just a set of rules so that we can just follow the rules just you know and and so that we can have a boring life you know and just let get get less uh joy out of it. It's the exact opposite. When we incorporate these healthy habits we actually get more joy out of life because we feel better.

And I have people who have done my program four times, five times, six times, seven times. They keep coming back even though our program, you know, says, "Oh, stay away from this. Stay away from that." But they keep coming back because they feel better. That's all I wanted to share with you. They feel better. So, thank you. Sorry, I kind of went over time, but I just get so I get so excited. Um, I really want to thank you for for staying here and um, I hope this was helpful. I will try to share with you at least twice a month uh, some more information.

I want to um, invite you to download from my website the 10day Daniel challenge. This is my own. I have been given uh permission from my boss to also share the one we have. It's a collection from her recipes, my recipes and just recipes from uh forks over knives and other places. So if you really want uh just write me on my website there's a contact um page and you can just write me and I'll just share you the other there. You can have two sets of 10 days basically. But I hope you try it because in 10 days you can feel better because I've seen it.

So I know you can. I don't know if we have still time for questions, but I'm definitely open for it. If you guys want to go over a little bit, um I'm totally fine with it. So yes, I am open for it. How much protein and fiber should a person have? Well, that will depend. Oh, how much protein and fiber should we have a day? And chickpea pasta is good. Chickpea pasta is definitely good for diabetes. Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. And how much protein? That will depend on the age, the height, the weight, you know, it just depends, but usually um they recommend at least 30 32 grams of um of fiber.

Most people don't get nearly that much. Most people eat like half. So, everybody should be eating more more fiber honestly. And the protein will depend on your weight, but most people really if they eat uh a lot of legumes every day, whole grains every day, vegetables every day, they will probably get enough protein. Somebody's asking, okay, well, let me see. How long does nutrition last in the body? Is it true that sweating means you actually burning fat? Well, if you're sweating, you are consuming calories.

So, the I have to say that it depends whether you're burning fat or not. If you just ate food recently, you're probably going to be burning a lot of carbohydrate, meaning you are burning mostly carbohydrates at first. If you do exercise in the morning, fasted, you're going to burn fat. I can almost guarantee that. If you do intermittent fasting, you're going to burn a lot of fat. I can guarantee that. So, try intermittent fasting. Eating twice a day. And early timerestricted eating when you eat more in the morning and less in the evening is one of the best ways to burn fat.

I can guarantee that. I have tried that and I a lot of people have tried it. If you do that in conjunction with a whole food plant-based diet, it's almost impossible not to lose weight. Really? All right. Uh, eggs. Okay. Well, it depends. Um, it's better than eating pork. It's better than eating red meat. I can say that for sure. The egg yolk is the number one source of cholesterol in the diet. It's very, very concentrated in cholesterol. I was reading a study yesterday about cholesterol. Cholesterol doesn't really, the cholesterol in the egg yolk will probably not elevate serum cholesterol.

In other words, the cholesterol in the diet doesn't really elevate your cholesterol, but it has other uh other consequences in the body. For instance, they have found that dietary cholesterol for instance can have consequences as far as the risk for cancer. That's one of the things. So, and protein the the uh animal protein itself can elevate the risk for cancer. So, you know, I don't recommend it necessarily. I think we should try to I have a whole uh topic on just um on just eggs and dairy. So one day maybe I'll do that I'll do that presentation if you guys are interested in just just eggs and dairy.

Uh so that's another one maybe for the future. I thought tofu was on the list to not eat. Actually tofu is one of the most is one of the healthiest foods probably in the world. Uh, and the blue zones are the five regions where people live the longest. And one of those regions is is Okinawa, Japan. And they eat a lot of tofu actually. And they're one of they are the longest living people in the world actually. So what can I say? Tofu is very you here in the United States, all the tofu is GMO free because otherwise people wouldn't buy it.

So all the tofu you're going to buy is G is non GMO by the way. Uh so as long as you buy non-GMO soy, you're going to be fine. And they have found that soy is prevents cancer. I've been writing as uh for a person who asked me to contribute to a book on cancer and I've written a whole chapter about 10,000 words on cancer and nutrition. And I've written a whole bunch on the myths of soy and and debunk a lot of that. And I have to tell you that soy is a food that helps to prevent cancer. In fact, it's wonderful to prevent cancer.

They have found that men who drink at least one or two um um glasses of soy milk uh have 71% less risk of of um prostate cancer. And women who eat soy foods have less risk for breast cancer. Women who have had breast cancer and eat soy food have less chances of it returning. And women who are going through menopause who eat half a cup of soy cooked soy beans, not tofu, not soy milk, but I mean you can eat that too. But the cooked soy beans help to lower all those menopause symptoms by 84%. Half a cup of soybeans, 84% reduction.

If you're going through menopause, you probably might consider that. FYI, it does not have estrogens. It has phytoestrogens which are not ex the same at all. In fact, they modulate estrogens in the body. In other words, if you have too much estrogen, they bind to estrogen receptors in your body and help to lower the binding of those estrogens in your body. So, it helps to lower the the uh effect of real estrogens in your body. If you don't have enough, it helps to increase, you know, the, you know, the the good u benefits of estrogen in your body.

So, it's a estrogen modulator. What has real estrogens like actual estrogens, not pseudoestrogen or phytoestrogens, what has real estrogens is dairy milk because the cows are impregnated when they're being milked. So when you drink milk, you're you're actually drinking actual estrogen. When you eat soy, you are consuming um estrogen modulator that helps you when you have excess estrogen or when you don't have enough estrogen. That actually helps you in both cases. FYI, what else? I think we have to go.

Gigi's telling me we have Oh, please get the questions on the uh please get the questions on the screen. Ah, I don't know how to do that. Oh, the question's on the screen. Okay. Can a person do anything about gallbladder short of gallbladder removal? Yes. Probably drink a lot of water. Stop eating a lot of cholesterol. Most of the gallbladder uh stones are made out of cholesterol. So, you want to not eat any cholesterol at all. And yeah, drink a lot of water. Change your diet immediately to a anti-inflammatory diet.

Um, and no fat. Like lower your fat immediately. Go into a lowfat diet now, yesterday, right away. Is there a diet for MS? Yes, there is. There is. Um, in fact, this is what I would tell you. Short story um because we don't have a lot of time. Go into Dr. Michael Greger's page because he has done a lot of videos on this. Michael Greor. Dr. Michael Greger and his page is nutritionfacts.org. nutritionfacts.org. He has done a lot of videos on this and there is a protocol. It's basically a whole food plant-based diet, but he has also shown the studies on how you know there is this um doctor who did a whole bunch of research on this and yeah that basically you can control MS long term years.

I mean basically this doctor had like these patients who lived perfectly well for years and years. I mean he did like 10 years of followup, 20 years followup, 30 year followup and the the patients were doing fantastic. So yes yes yes you can. So do it do it. Uh can you shrink uh thyroid nodules? I think it depends on the the cause. I think you have to look at the cause. Any suggestions autoimmune conditions? Yes. autoimmune conditions. You guys follow Dr. Brooke Goldner. Look her up on YouTube. Look her up on Facebook.

She has a book. First of all, she had lupus and she basically cured her own lupus. She's an MD. And then she wrote the book Goodbye Lupus. And then she wrote the book Goodbye Autoimmune Diseases because she started helping her own patients too who had autoimmune diseases, other autoimmune diseases. So look her up. Uh she has free videos. She helps I don't think she has time to help people oneonone anymore because she has way too many people who follow her. So she does like group classes and things like that.

But just read her book and it's basically an autoimmune um protocol. The number one thing she does is she eats a lot of greens. Just you drink a huge green smoothie every day because those green vegetables are very very anti-inflammatory. Green vegetables are very anti-inflammatory. So you eat a huge salad and then you green you eat a or drink a green smoothie because how else are you going to get so many greens into your body? So, you do that and you also eat a lot of flax and chia because flax and chia are very anti-inflammatory because of those omega-3 fatty acids.

But how are you going to then have an anti-inflammatory um effect if you keep putting pro-inflammatory foods into your body? It's not going to work, right? It's just not going to work. can't just be putting pro-inflammatory foods and try then to lower the inflammation. So, you really kind of have to go into an auto-inflammatory diet, which is a whole food plant-based diet, but you go the extra mile. So, you add a lot more things and and basically it's a lot of greens and it's a lot of flax and chia.

You have to, you know, lower your stress, sleep a lot, drink water. I mean all of this stuff it has to be a whole lifestyle I would follow her. We can talk about some other day I can do an auto autoinflammatory or autoimmune anti-inflammatory topic someday. Uh when a person is trying, this is going to be our last one. I was told um when a person is trying to heal from a disease, especially autoimmune diseases, do you believe staying away from foods high in acid? Yes. Eating more alkaline? Yes. High in carbon H2?

Yes. So, yes. The um Yes. Yes. Yes. Absolutely. So the whole food plant-based diet is alkali alkanizing because you're going to stay away from the most acid forming foods in the diet which are animal proteins. Uh now there are some plant protes that may produce some acid but in the in the whole like in the aggregate the plant-based diet in general will not be acid acid forming. So you will be alkalinizing your body in general. So you will not be losing calcium for instance which people who eat up uh eat based meat-based diet produce too much acid leech calcium out of their bodies that's how you end up with osteoporosis for instance.

So yes a plant-based diet in general in the aggregate will alkalinize your body. Yes, that's what you want to do. Eat more plants. Eat more plants. So yes 100%. So thank you very much for being here. I am going to pray now and end with a word of prayer. I just want to thank you so much again for staying here being with me, putting up with me because I talk too much. Um, but you can uh I'm going to start putting these videos up on my own channel because I don't have a lot. I just have way too many in my Spanish channel.

But I'm going to start putting more in my English channel, but go to my website down download the 10day uh plan. Start doing it. And if you have any questions, just hit me up on my uh on my website and I'll try to do these at least twice a month. And just if you have any questions, I'll probably cover um some of the stuff you have questions on. So, but I do have some topics, you know, that I can also do in case you don't have any questions. So, let's pray. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for the opportunity to get together to have this program.

Thank you for all the people who uh connected tonight. Thank you for just the knowledge that you gave that you give us for the opportunity you ha that you give us to learn so much about the body, the human body, the physiology and how everything works. And thank you for giving us this wonderful message of healing, of salvation. Thank you Lord for giving us the Bible, the spirit of prophecy where we can learn so much about how to better take care of this temple uh of your Holy Spirit. Help us Lord.

We know we're addicted to so many things. Help us to better take care of our bodies. Help us to spread this knowledge to those who are suffering from so many diseases. This world is so sick. Help us Lord to take this message to others so others may know that you are our healer, our doctor, our savior. Thank you for everything in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you again you guys. We'll see you in the