Welcome Mental Health Monday family. So good to see you guys here. We apologize for our delay. Um we were having some technical issues. I'm tired of saying that to be honest. And this time it was like we got a new system so we wouldn't have those problems and then um we're still learning the system. So there was a simple thing to do and we figured it out at the at the last minute. We were about to not go live but praise God we are here live. Um and I see that we have just a couple of faithfuls who who hung on.

Hopefully uh the others will uh check back or some were tuning in late. I see it's creeping up just a bit. So, uh, we are thankful that you are here. We have an important topic and of course we are not going to get to all of it this evening because we are having an abbreviated um program because we're starting late but we will continue to do the program not next week but the week after. So we will um since we produce and host our own program we can we can cover as much as we want and take as long as we want.

So however long it takes. This is a very important topic, but I want to say welcome to my co-host, Dr. Ricardo White. Thank you so much. Happy belated birthday and welcome back from Hawaii, it sounds like. Thank you. Yes, that's our favorite little getaway spot that we can sneak away to sometimes just to get uh refreshed. You know how the Bible says you need to go rest a while, go take some time away. That was our time away. and it definitely was a good um uh refreshing um to me and my husband. So, thank you for the birthday greeting, too.

It was nice to spend my birthday there as well. So, yes. Okay. Well, we have, of course, Clint, one of the faithful, hung on, Clint, you knew we were we were coming, Clint, we were coming. So, it's good to see you here. Uh Lynette Buffong Buffong. Okay. Good evening to you. Uh, nice to see you here. Uh, Muse Black, you were the first one. And I don't know where you're watching from, Muse. Um, but it's good to see you here. Please put in the chat where you're viewing from. Robert Green, good to see you.

I suspect was probably first, but then jumped off. Yeah. Yeah, probably. He was like, "All right, they'll be He probably kept checking to see. I'll keep checking if they get on." So, thank you. technical difficulties going through this but just on the content because it's really really important. It is very important content. Very important content. Whenever you and pastor Myers are presenting, he talks about this principle of repeat and enlarge. That's right. So that's what we're going to do tonight.

We're gonna got to repeat it. Okay. Yes. No, that's will enlarge. I want to give you this overview. The reason it's so important is it's because it's almost like alcohol is the silent killer. It's been around so long. We started we hear about the opioid crisis, but we now are losing sight that wait a second alcohol is still doing some serious damage, right? And you hear about fentinol all the time and all these type of of drugs. Yeah, you're right. You're absolutely right. And we're going to jump into that.

Just welcome everyone uh who is here. Want to say hi to Ashley Owens. Thank you for the birthday greeting. And yeah, it's great to see all of you. Absolutely. And you know what? You guys can please share on your social media uh what you're watching. Invite people to come and join you because this is a topic for everyone. This is a topic for everyone. Um because as Dr. White was saying, it's like the silent killer that nobody is talking about. Um, and when we get into it, I'll I'll give my some of my perspective on why that is.

Um, but we want to take a deep dive into um the addiction of alcohol and also look at what it does to the person obviously and looking into all of that, but also what it does to relationships and to um to those that they love, how how that affects them. And I'm sure many of you have been on some level affected by, you know, either a close family member or through a friend who may have had an alcoholic parent or or um or a loved one um and they were very impacted by that. So, we're going to take a deep dive into that.

So, give us the numbers, Dr. White. What is alcohol doing? How many lives uh does alcohol addiction take per year? So it's on average, but I remember when I was in training the number was 80,000. As if that's not enough, right? Currently the statistic is 140,000 people dying annually in the US from alcohol related causes. Just for context, imagine 380 people dying daily. Okay. Wow. That's about a death every 3.8 eight minutes. All right. 44% of those dying are dying from chronic conditions like liver disease, cancer, high blood pressure.

But 66% are dying from acute issues like alcohol poisoning, car accidents, falls, homicides, and suicides. One of the really concerning things of Ponte is there are people who can start a binging episode not suicidal. Not suicidal. And in the midst of that drinking episode actually commit suicide under the influence of alcohol. So it it really is a silent killer because it's one thing that you are already feeling suicidal. It's another that you were at your psychic baseline and now because of intoxication now you that that's really really um tragic but 140,000 people dying annually.

So that is tragic. Yeah. So that is tragic. something else. And I I like what I'm I don't like what Clint said, but I think it's I like it as a comment just to um because I think it's it a lot of us um have dealt with that. Um but it says, "I grew up in a household where alcohol was such a normal band-aid." Wow. And I like how you put that uh Clint because you to give it the term a band-aid and that is what alcohol and really any other drug is. It is to just cover up those negative emotions. You don't want to feel it.

So it's we try to numb ourselves. Um you know that's and so alcohol will do that. Try to numb yourself from feeling those negative uh emotions. But I just like the analogy that you used calling it a band-aid because that is how it can start for some people and then it turns into an addiction. And so that next question then would be then, hey, what's the difference between social drinking versus when it's an addiction? You do want to know that there was a 2023 study um that said just one drink and raise the risk of death.

Um so a massive 23 study published in the JAMAMA network found no amount of alcohol is safe. Even moderate drinking is associated with increased all cause mortality. risk increase begins um to appear just one drink per day for women and two for men and the article in JAMAMA 2023 Journal of the U Journal of the Medical Association. Um, so that's that's interesting when you start to see that, you know, even science is saying no, there's no safe there's no safe amount, right? Something to be aware of.

And then of course, alcohol impaired driving causes one in three traffic. So over 10,000 deaths annually in the US are due to alcoholrelated crashes. So this is not something we talk a lot about. The other thing is you see so many people adding to their brand alcohol. You see, and I'm not going to call anybody out, but this is almost like a right of conscience. And you see them making a lot of money. By the way, how much do you think America spends on alcohol in a year? That an because I couldn't hear you that well.

Did you say an average American or in America we spend on alcohol in a year as a whole? You could do either one, but um I was thinking just how what's the total amount spent on alcohol in the United States in one year? I'm taking I'm just taking a shot in the dark. So, um a billion dollars I How much? 383 billion. 383 billion. Wow. I was so off. No. And when you break Well, the billion is good because a lot of times people go even under that. Um, but when you break it down, that's almost like $600 for every man, woman, and I forget if it's child included.

Let me see if I can get you the exact stat, but it's it's astronomic when you really think about it. That is so much money. That is so much money. But that lets you know how big of an industry it is. I know we're not talking about addiction right here, but it's that's how big of an industry it is. And when something is that big, they don't want you. Okay, I don't want to sound like a conspiracy show here, but they don't want you to stop. They want you to drink, right? Or they want you to like abuse this because it's making so much money um for someone and and I think sometimes people just don't know, but you living mana audience, we want you to be aware and we want you to recognize this for the risky thing that it is.

Mhm. So, so first we just wanted to ground the conversation so that you can understand no this really is a very important issue. This really is an important issue and that's why we wanted to give you some of those um statistics. Um yeah, any anything else that you wanted to any any questions or any issues? Yes. Um, and just like you're asking me questions, but we want you guys to put your questions in the chat as well, so that we can that so that we can talk about it. Um, but just I'm still just blown away by that number.

Um, but when I think about um addiction, I mean, what because alcohol is a substance, right? It it can change your um your mind or you know it's it's a substance, right? So what other substance um besides I guess cigarettes um nicotine right that um is promoted the way alcohol is and I can even say that nicotine or cigarettes is not even promoted the way alcohol is. Um maybe it used to be but not in the last what 30 or 40 years it hasn't been as promoted as alcohol. I mean, you have commercials that are promoting alcohol and um you know, it's just it's like it's promote, you know, when you turn 21, you can legally drink.

It's okay. Now, it's just it's it's just something that it's not looked at as a negative in our society. It's not negative. Only if you're young and you're a teenager or whatever, then it's a negative. Um, and then of course when people do abuse it, then it's a negative. But it has to get to that point before it's a negative for our society. It's just not portrayed. You know, you have you have the image of the strong person and they're attractive and they're surrounded by, you know, the opposite sex and there's everything that you would kind of aspire to be and it's quietly centered around that drink in your hand and it just being the ultimate mark.

So, I just want to give you the the specific statistic. In 2023, the average annual expenditure per consumer unit on alcohol beverage was $637, up from 583 in 2022. So, I just want to specific statistics. Um, so just wanting to uh take a deep dive like um what happens well addiction period, but what happens in the brain? um to someone who um gets addicted to alcohol because you know people are thinking like well I you know I drank some I wasn't addicted to it but then some people do get addicted so what happens in that to that person who gets addicted so one of the things that happens when you drink alcohol is initially um you actually relax okay because of course it'll go to the brain and so it'll relax and so This is what gets a lot of people started because when you go to a social setting, you're kind of tending like a drink kind of reduce that anxiety.

But unfortunately, it doesn't stop there. It it can continue until of course it can progress all the way to intoxication and even a person getting comos. I think the interesting thing is that with repeated use, alcohol goes to a a place on the on the neuron and what it'll do is it'll actually decrease the rate of firing of the neuron. Okay? And when the body gets habituated, when it gets accustomed to that, in the absence of alcohol, there is increased firing of that neuron. So in other words, in the absence of alcohol, the anxiety kind of goes up.

It goes up. Now, if the anxiety is going up, guess what it's going to encourage you to do? Drink. Drink more. You're going to drink more. Drink more. Drink more. You can see the cycle. And so, so a lot of people say, well, you know, I drink because it relaxes me. And they sometimes don't even well, I guess they didn't recognize them, but in the absence of alcohol, it can progress to where they are they are having tremors. They're having tremors. Um, and they need the alcohol or at least they use the alcohol to self-medicate the tremor.

So you did say this was going to be repeat and enlarged. We wanted to show you this is a really fascinating discussion and you want to be here when we continue this discussion um I guess two weeks from now. Um so I so we we are going to have to stop at um 5:45 um because of uh because of an issue that I um at the beginning. Um but I but we we we wanted to ground you in understanding even though we don't talk about alcohol addiction a lot um it it really is kind of a silent kill. It it has a profound impact um and it's something that it's it's wise to avoid.

It's it's wise to avoid according to the John McFetti. It's like, hey, we can't anymore say there is that one drink is a good idea. Um, that is something the research is not it's just not bearing out. Right. Clint has a good question. He says, "How can you help someone who abuses alcohol? What are some general methods of approach?" Okay. So, uh it's funny because the approach is going to vary depending on where they are in their process. Um so, I'm sure you're familiar with the stages of change.

And so, um this is in motivational interviewing. What it highlights is that people will be at a different point in their recovery journey. um from not interested at all in change to very motivated and very interested in change. So that each phase of that requires a different approach. Um and so that that's what complicates the discussion. Um Clint, so now obviously the person is not motivated at all. Um that's where boundaries are important. Um, and it's a situation where it's okay, I have to control what I can control.

I can't control your behavior, but I've got to control my behavior. So, right, if you're intoxicated and I've noticed that you're unsafe to be around when you're intoxicated, then I'm going to withdraw from you um during those. and and you basically figure out what are the boundaries you're going to need to set um in order to keep the relationship safe. And now you can see why professional consultation can be so important um because it's at that point that you can you can describe your experience with alcohol.

You can ex you can describe the goals that you have where this fits so that you can get some very nuanced recommendations on what it is you need to do in order to in order to optimize the relationship as best as possible. So that is a great question. Um, and and I hope that you see um I hope that you see why it's important to get the necessary attention. This stuff is not just intuitive and it's a mistake to think, okay, I can just use my best guess. A lot of our best thinking um is not going to help the situation.

There are knee-jerk things that we're inclined to do that'll make it worse and things that we might not be inclined to do that might help the situation more than you would think. Um, what are some of those things that are knee-jerk um, uh, things that we might do that might make it worse? I'm sure many would like to know. So, they don't they don't do that. So, for example, there's a condition called codependence, right? And for example, it's you know what, I've got the power to keep you from drinking.

All right. Right. And we are just going to do everything like it's sort of like the chain you to the bed kind of mentality, you know, right? I'm going to jail you and I'm going to keep tabs on you and all this kind of like when in fact you wouldn't believe how creative people are in that kind of atmosphere. Um, you know, um, saying that what it ends up doing is not working. Like anyone who's taken up that approach and has a moderate amount of self-awareness um will recognize that this is not a winning strategy.

Um I really should get some professional consultation, but it's the knee-jerk thing that you're inclined to do. Okay, I I can I can do for this person what they actually need to do for themselves. Um I see that work um very well. So that's the that's the thing that I would say. I'm gonna have to leave it there for now. um you know uh sadly. Okay. So, you're having that other call that you must take. Yes. Absolutely. Got it. Got it. Um I think we Okay, I will try to take some of your questions if there's things that I cannot answer because I'll be like we're going to ask Dr.

White that on our next session and I will definitely we're going to table that. But I will, you know, go into some of the areas that I feel like I can cover. Um we just have about 15 more minutes together and so uh we will we will do that but we are going to come back in two weeks and have Dr. White of course back to be able to go deeper and I unplug a stress uh mastery webinar that we will be hosting. Um, so is it stressful or what? You know, and so, uh, April is actually stress awareness month.

And so, the Mastermind Institute will actually be hosting a webinar to teach you a powerful framework for helping you deal with stress. And the link um, is going to be in the in the chat so that you can register for that. So we can know how many people we need to prepare for circulate it as widely as possible and it's free. Yes, you guys want to take advantage of that and it is in the chat. So please um click on that link um and you can always go back after this program ends. You can always go back and um look at it in the in the um in the chat so that you can see the link um so that you can be able uh to get that information and go.

It's free, guys. So, you want to you want to go. It'll be a blessing. Um, okay. Thank Yes. Thank you for that. And we'll mention that. Um, we're only going to be here for a few more minutes and we'll mention it again. But thank you, Dr. White. And we will see you in two weeks. See you in two weeks. Thank you. So, yes, again, want to thank everyone for being here this evening. As you can tell, it is an abbreviated version of mental health Monday. And we don't get our Dr. white with us the entire time because he had to run off and take care of um some important things.

But I just wanted to stay on here just for a few minutes longer, give you guys an opportunity to um ask more questions or even comments um just about alcohol addiction. Um you know, you know, Dr. White is a psychiatrist and he specializes in addiction. So he covers that in an area that I don't specialize in. But what I do specialize in is in uh therapy uh for for for for individuals, for couples and for families. And so I just wanted to highlight that you know so many times you know I have families individuals that come in and they have so many issues um as adults that they're dealing with.

Um, and as I get deeper into their story, you know, it comes to find out come to find out that they um were raised by an alcoholic, either their mother or their father or maybe not even an alcoholic, but from a parent who abused drugs. And so that brings um a host of issues um into uh their life. Not it didn't just bring it in as adults, they always had it even as children. Um but it carries through all the way through um adulthood and it really shows up in their relationships. A lot of times there are insecurities.

Um they just don't feel safe. Um they a lot of times they have attachment uh issues. So they have insecure attachment. So they don't know how to allow people to get close to them because there's always fear. Um, when you're being raised by a parent that was an alcoholic, you just never know how they're going to come home. You never know if this is going to be a good night. You don't know if, you know, dad or mom are going to be um abuse abusive to each other or abusive to you. So, there's just a lot of just continual running anxiety um in children.

And then that doesn't stop, like I said, even into adulthood. And again, it shows up in their relationships um when they're trying to have um a normal, happy, healthy relationship with their um significant other and they find it very extremely difficult uh to do that. Um or even in raising their children, they um have picked up some very bad habits from their um their parent that is addicted to alcohol or other substances. Okay, we have a question. and I feel like I have an addictive personality.

Is that truly a thing? Um, yes, that that is a thing. And usually that comes from other emotional issues. Meaning um it's a thing because you can learn that you can you can try to cover up other emotional issues by always uh being addicted to something or always being high on something. Like like I said at the beginning of the program, being addicted to a substance that numbs emotions, negative emotions that you don't want to feel or you don't want to think about. So because of that and because you've been could have been going through that or dealing with that for so long, it's just easy to be like, well, I'll just drink or I'll just smoke it away or I'll just sniff it away or whatever the choice of um addiction, a drug or a substance that you're wanting to use.

So hopefully that makes sense. It's not like you were just born like you have an addictive personality. No, it's it's the trauma and things that have happened to you um throughout your life that have pushed you or um just really taken you in that direction into that space. So hopefully that that makes sense. Um I see some other comments on here. Um it says the book Steps to Christ Recovery Edition. All right. Okay. Um, oh, with the 12step program of Alcohol Anonymous. Okay. Yeah, that's really good, too.

So, yeah, there's definitely amazing things that there's help. There's resources out there for um addiction. And so, um that that sounds like a very good uh resource. And there's other there's others as well. Um, but it is it is something that, you know, when you go when people go into rehab, they're dealing with a lot of the stuff that I'm talking about. I mean, to be able to really get down to the foundation of why uh you are finding being addicted not just to alcohol, but other substances, um, you're you're wanting to find out the root of where this is coming from.

What? Why was this such Why was this an option for you? Why was did you feel like this was a better choice? What pain are you trying to cover up? What what are you trying to numb yourself from? Um those are the areas that I know in addiction recovery that they they deal with. And when you're in individual um addiction recovery, definitely want to to go into those areas. Um just looking for any other questions or comments. Um let's see. It says, "I'm aware many new SDAs give up alcohol but have not dealt with the trauma of life."

I agree. I agree with that, Gloria. That is so true. Um, and so they may give up alcohol um because socially now that they've they've learned that, you know, socially because they're in a Christian uh space and setting that's not okay. But they can they if they don't deal with the trauma, they will turn to something else negative. And it may not be a substance, but uh but it's still there. It's still not going to be something healthy. They you always want to deal with the root issue. Whatever that root issue is, that foundational issue, if you will, that needs to be dealt with for you to really be healed from what um was causing you to be addicted to any substance in the first place.

Let's see. How do you balance your commitment to your husband when addiction is involved in trying to raise your children dealing with the chaos? So Ashley, um that's definitely a hard one when um there's, you know, one parent who um is addicted to a substance and there's um young children and you said a balance. So, and and you know, if there's there's so many there's so many other I mean more to a situation like this. I mean, if the the spouse is not willing to get help, I definitely would have um my children and myself in therapy if that was my situation.

um just because we are both coexisting and living with an alcoholic spouse spouse and they're dealing with an alcoholic parent. Um if you're in danger or if the children are in danger and there's abuse that's going on then you have to work with a you know I would you know you need to I would tell anyone to work with a mental health professional um so that you can make a decision if it's safe to leave or if that's the best decision to leave if it's not safe for you or the children. But if it is a safe, relatively speaking situation, I would definitely get myself and my children into therapy because they're being impacted by being exposed and being raised by an alcoholic um parent and so is the spouse.

So that is um that's what I would tell anyway anyone and I hope if I was in that situation that's what somebody would tell me uh because you're needing uh to get support or to get to get help in that situation. the children are definitely going to need it cuz it is not easy. What happens when children are raised with alcoholic parents? Um they always have to walk on eggshells because they never want to just like trigger the alcoholic parent. Um so they just always they never feel like they can really say how they really feel.

um they will just learn how to just cover it up and then they take that with them throughout their life and into their adulthood and um they don't speak up when they should and they allow things h that to happen when they shouldn't and then but then they have a lot of anger. So there's just a lot of stuff in there for children who've been erased um in in homes where their parents were are a parent or sometimes two parents were alcoholics. Um, definitely therapy is needed cuz they need to unpack all of that and deal with all of that that they couldn't deal with um when they were when they were young.

So, um, we have just a few more moments and a little bit more time for questions. Again, we're going to take a deeper dive into this in two weeks when Dr. White can be back with us. He had an urgent call that he had to to take. Um but uh we're going to look more at the disease of alcoholism, what it does to the body again, what it does to uh your relationships and how you even how you even get there sometimes how you even get there to become an alcoholic. So, we're going to look into this deeper.

Um, and even how like somebody asked how you can help people. If you have um a loved one that is an alcoholic or a friend that is a alcoholic and you're wanting to help them, what is the best thing that you can do? So, we're going to take a deeper deeper look into that. But um yeah, so if you have any more questions or comments, you can like I said, there's just a few more minutes um and then we're going to we're going to close out for this evening. But before we do, I'd like to put up Dr. White's um program on stress that is free that uh he will be doing um here.

So I think we're going to put that in the chat. There it is. The Mastermind Institute. Click on that. Um I'm not I don't remember the dates. I want to say I think the 13th which is Sunday the 13th I think it's starting and it's free. Um and so you're not going to want to miss that. You're not going to want to miss that. Let teaching us how to deal with stress because it's always we all have stress, right? We all have stress and we need to learn how to deal with it in a healthy way. Okay, Ashley, at this point it's more like the dry alcoholic where the substance isn't used, but the walking on eggshells uh and triggers are still present.

Yeah. So, in that situation, um it's like they've stopped using alcohol, but they haven't dealt with the foundational issues that caused them to start drinking in the first place. And so now it's just like they're bitter and angry and like because they're not numbing themselves with the alcohol anymore and they haven't dealt with the foundational issue, they're still going to be just a very moody, unpredictable person. And so that's why you're still walking on eggshells. So really stop to stop drinking is great, but you but you still this person still needs to deal with the core foundational issues that cause them to start drinking.

Um because they they need to heal and they need to deal with with those things and and until then they're pretty they're going to be a pretty miserable unhappy person until that happens. So yeah. All right. Yes. Gloria Alanon is a program for the family of alcoholics. It is a great program. Um so yeah, you guys can look that up. That's another resource. It's a great program. Okay. Well, um want to thank you guys. Sorry that today was a little it was shorter than normal. We had some issues to get on.

We got in late, but I still think some really positive things were shared even when Dr. White was on here. And hopefully some of the things that I've been able to share towards the end were helpful as well. But we are going to there's definitely a part two to this uh a complete part two that will happen in two weeks. So want you to be back here with us. Bring a friend. Um bring someone that you know that has either had to uh has an alcoholic spouse or been raised by an alcoholic or even dealing has done dealt with some of these things themselves.

Um and just let them know that this is the topic that we are are talking about. Um, so we look forward to seeing you in two weeks and hope you have a good rest of the evening. See you. See you soon.