Hello mental health Monday family. I almost said the wrong thing. Living man of church family. So I was like wait mental health Monday family. Hi guys. Good to see you here. So happy that uh you guys are with us. I know we missed a week last week. Good to see you Dr. White. Good to see you as well. And I am trying to make this so that I can see the chat so I can see what people are saying. Let's All right. How has your week been, Dr. White? Uh, it has been a peaceful week, relatively speaking. Uh, so you know, of course, my mom is staying with me and my mom can cook, so it really Yeah, it really makes Oh, is that right?

Yes. It's very therapeutic. Um, yeah. What are some of the Panameanian dishes? um Panameanian dishes it would be like um especially uh arosfolio, you know, that kind of stuff. I mean, I don't eat chicken, but I just if you want it authentic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of Caribbeans migrated to Panama. I do know that. So, there is, you know, quite a bit. So, we do a lot of Jamaican stuff as well, like ground food, akin saltfish, you know, all that kind of stuff. But, oh, I'm impressed. I'm impressed, Dr.

White. She's gangster. She's gangster. So, you've been So, you haven't been complaining about mom being there at all. You're like, "Oh, no. Oh, you're happy you get to come." Not that Florence was not already killing it in the kitchen. I know she was, but you're just like, you get you get your wife and your mom's cooking, so you're happy. Well, Florence has been um studying uh to pick up her doctorate. Okay. So, uh, I've kind of like relieved her of kitchen, you know, requirements, all that kind of stuff.

She's, so she just has been f focusing on that. So, to have mom come come behind and provide some support to both of us, we are very appreciative. Very, that is amazing. That's amazing. Well, I want to say welcome to some of our viewing audience. And please forgive me if I say this wrong, but Kamagello, I think it's Kamageloo. I could be wrong. Um but welcome u from South Africa and Camello I think is saying it's 2:05 in the morning. Wow. Thank you. Thank you for tuning in to mental health Monday.

We are we are so we feel so privileged to have you to think of us and to wake up in the early mornings uh in the country of South Africa and tune in. We we really appreciate it. Also Christopher Andrew is saying hello. So, Christopher, where are you viewing from? And please, others, let us know where you're viewing from and share this link on your social media. Let others know that you are watching a mental health program that is being hosted by two mental health professionals and that they get to ask their questions.

And our title, our title, our topic I should say is uh about alcohol and alcoholism and what alcohol addiction can do to you. So definitely share that. Um but let us know where you're viewing from because we want to we want to hear from you. We want to hear from you. I know we took a week off. Um I had to go and you're talking about moms. I had to go take care of my mom. A and um I was in California for the week, but it was like I wasn't vacationing. I was working. You were handling business. Yes.

But I did enjoy being um in California on the coast. I forgot like I really didn't bring warm enough clothes because here in in the south like when it starts to warm up like it's warm in the evenings, it's warm in the morning. Like it's just it's warm, right? I forgot the coastal how did I forget? I've only been gone three years. But uh the coastal um climate when it gets in the evening and the morning it's chilly and you need like you have to do layers. So it's going to heat up during the day, but you're going to need like a light jacket during the day.

I mean in the morning and in the evening for sure. Absolutely. Like it's funny when you live in California, you always have a jacket near you no matter what. Always because the weather just shifts so it shifts. That coastal breeze is coming in. Definitely. Okay, Christopher, you're in Wildwood, Florida. Well, it's good to have you here and we are so thankful to have you here and everyone else that is viewing and watching with us. So, Dr. White, you had to leave last time. I'm putting it. you had to leave early.

So, we are wanting to I'm not going to talk as much today because we want to I carried it for a little I did carry it till the end. It was but I definitely did not have the knowledge that you have on addiction. So, we want to we want to hear from you. Um and honestly, I can't even remember where we left off, but let's you can you can pick it up. Start from the you know top. Yes. Because we really didn't have a lot of time last time, right? And uh this is sort of like the it's it's hidden in plain sight.

Um alcohol addiction is often overlooked because it's kind of talked about so much you don't think it's that big of a deal, right? But when you look at the stats, you realize alcohol is nothing to ignore. Uh something to take actually very very seriously. One of the first questions I asked you was how much do you think we as a nation spend on alcohol and that statistic was so like I don't want to say alarming because that's a little too strong but I think most people about fall out of their chair.

You were like uh what do you think like a billion or something like that? I think I said 1 billion and you said way more than that and see I'm not remembering 4 billion 30 304 billion. And so what that breaks down to is the average annual expenditure per customer unit on alcohol beverage was $637 up from $563 in 2022. Okay. So that's almost like the average, you know, person in the US is spending that much on alcohol, like 600 bucks. So, uh, a US household spent on average $294 on alcoholic beverages consumed at home.

All right? And in the same year, an average of $343 was spent on alcoholic beverages consumed away from home. All right? So, we are spending a lot of money. A lot of money. Here's something really funny. Um, so as you're going through life, you're going to be in settings where you get pressured to drink, right? Where do you think I got the most pressure to drink? The most pressure like where you personally got the most pressure to drink. The most pressure. Yeah. And it wasn't college. College. It wasn't college.

It wasn't even high school. Not even high school. This is Oh, I think I know what you're going to say. Medical school. Not even medical school. What? Like talk about irony. I was at an addiction psychiatry conference. Sitting around with my colleagues. Wow. And they're ordering all kind of sophisticated drinks, bourbon, and put the ice and bring some side water with it and all this kind of elaborate stuff. And I'm dying laughing. And so then I'm like, "Hey man, I'll take I'll take my standard drink of virgin pina colada."

And I'm like, "And I don't want her having any experience whatsoever. I want a virgin pina colada." So they take my order and um the waiter leaves and all of them just launch into me. Why would you order that? You know, why would you order that? And it was just so comical like give me a break, you know? Um why would that be a problem, you know? So it was just it was just super super hysterical. I'm talk about dramatic irony because you wouldn't think that you'd get pressure in that kind of a setting.

So it's Right. Well, I know your your liver thanks you. Oh. Oh man. Your whole body thanks you, but your liver thanks you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so just in terms of how much we spend and it's it's a no-brainer because you see how much alcohol is is is used. It's really interesting. Yes, it it definitely is. And so that that we spend in producing alcohol and then think about all the advertise or is all the advertisement that they do for alcohol. All that's tied into that number. Well, and it's unfortunate because I mean that's what you expect an advertisement to do.

It just glorifies it. It just shows all the good stuff, you know? It puts it at the center of being attractive and having friends and it's at the core of it's it looks fun and elegant for Yeah. for women. It looks elegant. beautiful glasses and bottles and I'm just like I mean and we know a reality that is very different than that you know in terms of hey what what actually happens so just so we talked about how alcohol is the third leading preventable cause of death in the US according to the CDC in 2022 and you said third preventable third preventable cause of death in the us preventable guys.

Yeah, I want them to inh 140,000 deaths per year estimated from alcohol according to the CDC. Um, and what's interesting about one of the other statistics is that alcohol is associated with more overdoses compared to all the other drugs combined as far as over including opiates. So, it's it's it's it's almost like the silent killer because like you just I don't I just don't hear about this kind of stuff. Um now in terms of traffic fatalities, what might you think the number might be? How how many um so let's say alcohol is let let's say that there are 30,000 fatalities.

Mhm. What percentage of of that 30,000 do you think is alcoholrelated? If there's 30 Say that again. If there's 30 fatalities, if there's 30,000 fatalities Oh, 30,000 fatalities. How many of them are due to are are connected to alcohol intoxication? Half. That's That's not bad. Um, so it's a third oneird. So alcohol is is responsible for 10,000 traffic accidents and traffic fatalities. Traffic fatalities. I believe that because when you're I mean people say about drinking responsibil responsible and always having you know a driver and all that type of stuff but when people just aren't do not they're they're not thinking in that mature wise mindset.

I'm not saying everybody but obviously the majority or a big chunk are not thinking that way. They think and they think they have it. they don't have a real sense of how intoxicated they really are and that they should not be on the road. Well, I mean, there's no question it impairs decision- making, you know? I mean, so part of part of the and and that's why you hear about the legal limit, but um the obviously the more that you drink, the more it can impair your decision-m and so um it's it's pretty it's pretty straightforward.

Mhm. Um, what's the what what's I mean I this is a trick question. I'm trying to figure out how to um Well, you already said that my liver would thank me. So, the liver plays a preeminent role in clearing the body of alcohol. Well, what is the function of the liver? Um, the the liver is the body's detoxifier. So, a lot of the medications that we might take, it's the liver that houses the reactions that are going to figure out how to metabolize that substance so that it can then get out of the body, whether excrete it in physical waste or sweat it out of the body or, you know, what have you.

But it's the liver that figures out, hey, how are we going to get rid of this, right? Mhm. Um and so you can imagine then why a liver that's not working is incompatible with life. And and also then it's the reason why when people um when people drink and obviously drink too much um it can result in the condition called you know cerosis big word for starring of the liver but basically you're damaging the liver to the point where it's it's not functional. Um, and you know, this this obviously is incompatible with life if you don't get something like a liver transplant for, which of course is not something that's easy necessarily um to get.

Um, we are going to focus on we're going to shift and and talk about um treatment in a in a moment, but I I just wanted us to kind of think through some of these um statistics, right? Things that we don't always think about. I mean, people were pretty blown away when you um when you read that first or when you read the statistic about how many um casualties are from, you know, being, you know, drunk on on from alcohol um and causing fatalities. Um and when you because you're you're about to switch gears now and you know about treatments and things like that.

But before we even go right into that, you know, I know there's people who are viewing um that have dealt with an alcoholic um in their life and and are probably just wondering like what do you what is what should they do as a friend, a family member when they're trying to get somebody who's an alcoholic some help? Yeah. What should they do and what they what should they not do? Well, you and I both know that a hallmark for therapy and for therapeutic intervention is first start with listening. Like listen and get really as clear as possible as for what is it that this person needs?

What is their stated need? Do they even recognize that they have a need? So it it's absolutely critical that whatever intervention you're thinking of it start with assessment. Okay, this is standard in in in in professional you know interaction. You start with assessment. You start with listening. So really and truly try to get an understanding of what is this person's stated need. Um do some listening, ask some good questions. uh one of the first things that the assessment will do is it will help you understand what stage the person is in and I'm sure um Atante you are familiar with the stages of change and this is something that's famous to motivational interviewing one of the things you do is you got to see where is this person where is this person's level of motivation right because when you understand that that's when you can match the intervention to their given stage of change.

Um, so I would want to listen, but then I would want professional advice. I personally especially if I have a person dealing with something as serious as alcohol addiction and we don't know anything about it like meaning meaning I wouldn't hesitate to get a mechanic to get me some advice if my car broke down. I wouldn't hesitate. I wouldn't it's like come on like this is a no-brainer. Um but I think sometimes with the mental health you know issues we feel like we can take it on ourselves like when in fact at the root of an alcohol addiction is a neurobiological shift in the mindset that reorients the brain in a way where it becomes dependent on alcohol.

Right? like to function. That's that's not intuitive. That's not intuitive because what you're thinking is, man, this person just needs a good prayer session, you know? Um, and I'm not saying prayer is going to hurt, right? Right. But we need to honor the fact that God designed the body and the brain to make changes and and and support the behavior of your choosing. So like I I can't tell you how powerful it is to really think about a brain that is reoriented around drinking. It's reoriented. It's now that's its main thing.

That's a powerful thing. And to think that you can just say, "Ah, stop doing it." Or, "I don't know anything about alcohol. I don't know anything about addiction, but I can cure this person." Right? That's quite a bit of hubris. That that's that's quite a bit of hubris. Um, so just just be aware of it. And and see what will happen is while I'm talking there are people who will be saying to themselves they'll be like I know somebody who just quit I know I told this person again remember how I started the discussion there are stages of change and so you'll find different people in different stages right correct that doesn't mean that now you have sufficient perspective to to be able to say well this this is how most addicts are going to believe or this is how Most alcoholics are going to be believe I I promise you it is a disease that is deserving of professional attention.

Professional attention. Mhm. And when you're too close to a situation, like if it's a spouse or a child or a parent that the the person who's dealing with the addiction, they definitely um a lot of times will resent or fight back to those people who are so close to them trying to help them make that change. If it's someone like um um a mental health professional or in a different setting that is they they are more um will be more obliged to listen and want to at least hear possibly if they're in that phase where change is that they're in that phase of change where it's possible to make that decision 100%.

And let let me help you understand how complicated alcoholism or addiction is. There are skilled practitioners. There are skilled therapists passionate about therapy who will say, "Let me get you to somebody who actually has expertise in dealing with alcoholism for sure or addiction because it's a specialized approach. I'm one of those therapists." I mean, I and you're skilled. Well, but and I definitely refer I mean I don't Yeah, addiction is not my specialty, but uh definitely refer them to someone who specializes in that because because there are just things that are counterintuitive.

All right, I see a question here. I call alcohol the truth uh serum. Why do people display their honest feelings a lot when inebriated? What one of the things that allows me to modify my behavior, it allows me to modify my speech and it allows me to edit my content is because my preffrontal cortex is functioning. So, one of the things that will happen when people get a damaged prefrontal cortex is their capacity to filter um will be impaired and it'll be reduced. So sometimes people who have a damaged prefrontal cortex, for example, they might even be more rageful, but other times you'll be like, I can't believe you said that, you know, because the bluntness is kind of surprising.

So one of the things alcohol will do, and it's famous for doing, is it will disinhibit. It will disinhibit. So where you might have been inhibited before, um, now you're more prone to just saying that thing. Um, but as it progresses, one of the things that you do do is you lose judgment. You lose the judgment to edit. Um, and that's why you might be a bit more truthful. Only problem is it might be brutally truthful. I hope that was helpful, Cassie. Yeah. People say when uh they hear a drunk person saying things, they believe it.

it may have come not out the right way, but because of they don't have that that barrier that would help them to filter, oh, maybe I shouldn't say this, maybe this isn't the right time, that they're just more honest in those type of situations. So, that makes sense. Um, so Shares is saying, so it's true once an al Oh, no. She says, "So, is it true once an alcoholic always an alcoholic?" Very good question because people say that Charice just dropped a bomb in here. For those who don't know, she just dropped a bomb where like a lot of people who are close to the community, they just pull their chair up because they're like, I want to see what he's going to say.

Yeah. What you going to say? And I'm interested what you're going to say. Okay. So, on this side of the equation, Sharice, um there's what's called a 12step community. So, like Alcoholics Anonymous, you know, so on and so forth. And so the message will be look take your take your condition seriously and just presume you're always an alcoholic because when you do that it'll keep you humble. It'll keep you coming to the meetings. It'll keep you disciplined about your recovery because the mindset is I can never drop my guard and you know what that's a good thing.

So there's an advantage to thinking that way. Also, if you're going into the community, it's kind of silly to be like, you know, I'm in the community, but let me fight with you on this issue. I don't think it's worth fighting over, you know, um, as far as, you know, this label of alcoholism. Okay. Now, over on my side as a Christian psychiatrist, right? So number one, um I recognize that the brain, as I said before, is capable of orienting itself around the activity of your choosing. I'm a firm believer in neuroplasticity.

I believe your brain can shift itself into new behavior. So now you're talking neuroscientist as a as as as as as a believer in neuroplasticity and and and in neurobiology. So that I do believe healing can take place. Now where that's not helpful is it's unfortunate when a person says to themselves, I'm healed, so now I can start now getting sloppy. That's where it's unfortunate. Um it's almost like there's there's a hubris, there's a arrogance where now um I don't have to be as thorough. That would be unfortunate.

That's where it can be helpful. But personally, the language I would embrace is I'm in recovery and I'll be in recovery forever, but I'm in recovery. I I think language is so powerful. I would never want to pronounce over myself doom. So that's why I like the language of recovery. I'm in recovery. But I see the two the two advantages to both. Yeah, I think that makes sense. And I think the community won't be mad at you for that. Most won't be mad at you for that. Um I mean it's it's something similar to what I tell couples, right?

It's like especially when they're ready to graduate from therapy. um if they stop doing the things that they have learned to do, they will be right back where they were to come in to therapy in the first place. And so I think it's the same thing for an addict. Like they are in recovery. And so that just means that the lifestyle decisions that have gotten you to where you are to be uh in recovery and to be doing so well, you have to continue to do that um throughout your life so that um you're not practicing actively in an addiction space.

So it makes sense. Absolutely. Absolutely love it, Tim. Love it. I say I'm recovered in recovery. Um, here's another statistic that should really motivate you to take your recovery as serious as possible. This is a stat coming from the National Institute of Health as well as the World Health Organization. Heavy drinkers die on average 24 to 28 years earlier than their counterpart, their non-drinking counterparts. Okay? So long-term heavy alcohol use can shorten life expectancy by two to three decades.

Okay? Especially when combined with other drug use um and things like smoking. Okay. So this this hopefully would have a person be very motivated. Uh so I I just want to make sure I was clear in answering your question. So, if you have a loved one that is that is suffering with alcoholism, get some professional guidance in terms of how should I how should I tackle this? Um because the things you might be inclined to do that you think are helpful might not be helpful and some of the things that you might be thinking might be unhelpful might be helpful.

Get some professional guidance. [Music] Mhm. Um I like what I mean I know this is not up here but I like a comment. Let's see if we can put it up there. Let's see. I truly believe and what he is saying about the neuroplasticity as someone who is going through that I can say it takes a lot of prayer and dedication. And dedication. Yes. Yeah. Um it it's just I mean it's the reason I can believe that when a patient is sitting in front of me there's hope there's hope. Um there is there is genuine neuroplastic support for your transformation.

There is you know what we believe as mental health professionals as soon as you pick up the phone that's the beginning of your healing process. So as soon as you are you know wanting to reach out for help that is the very first step and so that's the beginning of the process. Um but yeah but let's so okay and I have well I have a question and maybe others you know do as well and like what we're talking about. So, um, if someone for whatever reason is not able to get into a rehab situation, I mean, you know, and they're not even able to afford, you know, traditional therapy to stop.

What would you say to that person, but they want to stop drinking? First and foremost, I would say um let's be honest, you use some very creative ways to get alcohol, right? I'll be like, let's be and it's funny because they'll like sheepishly smile and they'll be like, yes. And sometimes I'll even say, you know, tell me some of the stories. Mhm. And I'm just saying the brain just the brilliance involved in getting alcohol like and so I'll say hey the same brilliance you use to acquire alcohol now I want you to use that for your recovery same brillian same same brilliance you use to destroy yourself now I want you to use it to heal yourself so be creative and and as best you can don't limit yourself don't just assume I can't afford recovery when I could afford I could afford the drug but I can't afford recovery.

All right. Next thing that I would say is we are all familiar with alcoholic synonymous. We're all familiar with it. Yes. And I would say it can play a powerful role in your recovery. It really can. Here are some things to consider. First and foremost, there tend to be so many groups, you can find a group that fits with your personality. So, just because you go to the first group and it doesn't fit, it doesn't mean another group might not just hit the nail right on the head and you find a community that supports you.

Now, here's a mistake that some people can make. they can go to the group and decide not to work the steps. Okay, it's really important to actually work the steps. And part of that process is you got to get a sponsor, right? You got to get a sponsor, but there's still a mistake that people can make. So, you go to the group, you get a sponsor, you you work the steps, but what's the mistake then? You don't graduate to becoming a sponsor. And and and and those that actually do graduate to becoming a sponsor, they have a high rate of maintaining recovery.

Okay. Yeah. So that so so and it it's free. Uh the it's it's usually with the mindset of pay it forward, you know? Right. Yes. Um, and so here's now now now let's talk about the attitude of going to the meeting. You could go to the meeting and sit in the back, right? Sit in the back where there are a lot of people who aren't quite as motivated and you're distracted and you maybe just leave with somebody who's also not all that committed. Or you could show up and you could be present, right? You could be present.

The other thing about the mindset is you could be looking for excuses as to why it won't work for you. You could be looking for excuses and if you're if you're going in with that mindset, you're going to find something, right? But if on the other hand, you chase your recovery the way you chase your addiction, you're not going to let that stuff push you out. I love that. That's powerful. Chase your recovery. Chase your recovery with the same chase your addiction that you chase your addiction with the same brilliance with the same creativity.

That's how you chase your recovery. Don't let anything dissuade you from your recovery and you won't be distracted by a lot of the things that take other people out. I love that. And you know because you mentioned um AA meetings and I actually went to an AA meeting and this was for school. this is um it was when I was getting my masters and I we needed to do um to go to one of those type of meetings and you know do a paper on and all this stuff. So but my experience was I was so impressed with the meeting and just the community and how I mean honestly I'll be honest with you the what I saw at that AA meeting is the way a very loving healthy church should be.

They were so they like looked out for each other, encouraged each other. There was so much love there. I was like, "Wow." I felt like I had literally been to church. It was such a spiritual experience that I witnessed. I mean, just because they were, you know, they were giving testimonies, they were crying, you know, they were crying because of where they've come from or just the things that they've battled, but and other and some were encouraging those who were just, you know, starting up. It was just really like just just a beautiful experience.

I have to say I was I was impressed. I didn't even know I was going to do addiction psychiatry, but my project in medical school was going to AA meetings. It it surrounded going to AA meetings. And the thing that was really cool to me was, you know how in church you you show up and you and it's a facade? Like you don't show up to church and I know exactly what you mean. I wish I wish it was like this big bucket where you could take your sin like put that badge on, right? No, it's the it's the reverse in church.

It's like there's no label for what your issue is. But in the 12step meeting, it's no, this is my issue. This is my issue. And there's no judgment. There's no shame. It's just upfront. No, this is my issue. And everybody's like, hey man, me too. Hey, sit down. Let's share. And it's like one of the first settings where you don't have to be ashamed, right? And you're not trying to hide because you know in church everybody wants to try to like give their u you know appearance of yes, I have it all together.

My family, my husband, my marriage. At a AA meeting, nobody's trying to even act like that. It it's just it's it was just such a I it was just a beautiful thing to witness. It really was. It was a place authenticity was celebrated like Yes. Like so that that was my experience of it. Um and so that that that was just it was I I found that very We have a great question from Joanne here. Um you can read it if you want. Can someone who is recovering from Can someone who is a recovering cocaine addict not using cocaine for the past 15 years but is now drinking a lot of year of beers seemingly not effect can still be considered an addict or alcoholic.

Well, you got to know in the recovery community it's it's it's sort of a all ornone. Now gonna they make an exception for smoking. I wish they didn't, you know. Um but like one exception is made for smoking, but that aside, any other addiction is viewed as um uh messing up your recovery, you know. So, which would make sense for a cocaine addict and now you're drinking alcohol, the recovery community would not be like, "Amen, brother." Like, you know, no. um that that's not that's not um that's not celebrated, if you will.

Um it it'd be frowned upon and and and certainly discouraged because you're just you're just slipping to a different addiction when you're coming going from one to the other. Man, I could go deeper in this, but even if they leave leave substances, they might go to something else like I don't know like gaming. I don't know. You know, people get addicted to sugar like Yeah, something like Yeah, sugar for sure. Smoking was a big one. And it's really sad when people succumb to smoking because you know alcohol we're saying is killing about 140,000 people a year.

Smoking is killing 430,000 people a year. Like you really don't want to succumb to that one. Um, so I think when you identify an addiction, it's an opportunity to do a search to see what is it that I'm longing for? What what what was it that this addiction was self-medicating? And yes, there will be a temptation to satisfy the desire with a counterfeit. Mhm. And you heard it here first. I'm saying these are counterfeits. These are counterfeits for your true desire. If you pay attention 100%. I mean that's what I share with my clients in therapy.

We I was saying what you just said is If you pay attention to the core of a desire, desires tend to be pure. Desires tend to be pure. Like when you think about um a longing to be with the person, all right, that's a pure desire. When you think of even even alcohol, a lot of times people start drinking because they feel nervous when they show up in a in a public setting. Yeah. Social anxiety with the social anxiety. That's pure. Um you take a person who maybe is using cocaine again like you you want to feel good.

No, that's pure. And a lot of addiction is a desire to escape the pain. Yes. That's pure. Yes. Now the question before you is will you use a counterfeit to satisfy the desire. That's the question. That's the trick and that's what you want to avoid. You want to use something genuine and you want to avoid the counterfeits. Why a counterfeit? Because with a counterfeit, it's not truly going to satisfy the desire. And if it does satisfy it, it's a temporary satisfaction. There's famous quote in the 12step community.

Mhm. One is too much and a thousand is not enough. One is too much and a thousand is not enough. I can't think of a better description. Me neither. I think that's a counterfeit. Absolutely. Absolutely. We have another comment. Ashley says, "I've been uh in Alanon since 2015. We are taught not to control the addict's recovery. I see him falling back um in and not into old let's see back in not old patterns and he relapses. What's the balance? Not controlling but being supportive. So she's trying to be a supportive you know not taking over because that's what she's taught not to do which is good but how can she um support?

Well, I I think and you know, sad to say, it sounds like Melody, the um the author of um of uh uh Codependent No More, I her her name is Melody. It's slipping my it's slipping my I forget. But you answer the question and I'll look it up. Sincerest, you know, you know, condolences to that giant in the field of you know, addiction and she was just so helpful with codependent. With codependency, you're trying to do for someone something they can do for themselves. And it's important to actually control what you can control what's important.

And so this is where healthy boundaries are important. Um, and a boundary is useless without a consequence. So you want to and this is where some therapeutic reflection can be helpful. Mhm. Um and that's where what you can do is you can take some time to see what will be my boundaries. Okay? What will be the boundaries that support, you know, and what will be the consequences if those boundaries are violated, right? And it's good to clarify that and then it's good to clarify that with that loved one.

Um, and so as you can see, because I don't know you, I don't know the situation, I don't know the person in question, I can't speak really intelligently on it. And this is why a therapist or someone with the expertise and custom tailor and customize a a recommended group of boundaries, you know, for you. Like you guys could co-create them and of course the appropriate consequences. Um, but that's why it's so uh important. But that's a that's a great question, right? And Independent No More was written by Melody um Beetle.

Beetle was it what is it? Is it Oh, no. No. I'm sorry. Not Beetle. Betty. Melody. Bey. Bey. Bey or Betty. Okay. And recently she unfortunately passed away. So sincerest condolences uh to to her loved ones uh that and the addiction community that's missing her because her book was uh was a landmark book. Yes, it really was. It really was. Here's another question. Um what is the effect of shame and guilt on someone's recovery? Um came in late and I don't know if you had talked about it yet. No, we didn't talk about um shame and guilt in recovery.

Um, David, I'm going to answer that question. Before I do that, I'm going to plug the fact that I am doing a stress uh webinar, a stress mastery webinar this Thursday at 700 p.m. Pacific um this Thursday. So, Amber, I think I sent you a link to Yes. And yeah, you guys don't want to miss this, like I said, because I did mention it uh at church on Sabbath. So, you don't want to miss this, guys. And like I said, uh when I announced it, you know, we're all dealing with stress and we can all learn how to better deal with stress in a healthy way.

We will benefit um our mental health and our physical health and just our life in general. And this is uh a free webinar. So, you want to go there. You definitely want to go there. Um and I think AMR's working on getting that up so um you guys will know where to go. So, for those of you just in case we don't get the link, um, info@themastermind institute. Just email me at info@themastermind institute and I will send the, um, the link over to you again. Info at the mastermind institute. All right.

Now, let me answer um, let me answer uh, David's question. What is the effect of shame um, and guilt? See, this is why it is so important to limit the focus on shame and even on guilt. Because when you when you really focus on shame and guilt, one of the things it will do is it can actually trigger a relapse. You can feel so ashamed and so worthless. Remember, addiction is a disease of escape. So, you can feel so awful, guess what? You want to escape feeling awful and you end up succumbing. You end up actually um you can end up relapsing.

So, what I'm getting at, David, is there's a point at which uh shame and guilt uh there's a point at which shame and guilt can actually like not help you. Uh, and so you want to be aware of that. Um, I'm checking that's that that link is not me. Uh, uh, Amra, I mean, this is me. Is that not your link? The mastermind Institute.com. It's it's the mastermind, not Oh, the mastermind. There you go. I don't know if that's the link for um the mastermind. Okay. for the thing. But anyway, so I just want you to think about that and maybe you can make a comment while I get him the while I get Ammer the link.

Okay. Yeah, you can get the correct correct link out there. Um let's see. We have other comments um and questions. Let's see. Um Shereice again wants to know, I have a friend who makes his own beer. Hm. What's the advice can be given concerning his alcoholic tendencies if he can make his own? I mean, it's still beer, so I don't think it I mean, it I don't think it it matters if he um if he can make it. I don't know if I'm completely understanding the question, but whether he gets it at a store, if he makes it, if he's addicted to it or cannot stop, um all the principles stay the same.

Um, the first time I saw the name spirits um, mentioned on a store that sold alcohol, I was clueless. But they don't hide what it is. Um, I agree. I mean, growing up, I didn't really realize what um, them calling it spirits. Um, but it really is. um it can really medicate the mind um and and to take over um our the way that we would normally think when we're not um intoxicated with alcohol or any really um any drug. Um so I think but I think spirits is definitely the correct um a good name for it.

So yeah, there's there's a lot of different um did you want to say something Dr. Wy with the prior question? with the prayer question, view the addiction as an opportunity to go on a journey to solve the real issue. And let's say for example, as opposed to drinking their alcohol milk, well, maybe I'll make my own. That that's still using a substitute. It's still using um a counterfeit. So, um I I I think it would be worth, you know, exploring what is it that I'm really after? Like, um I think I think that's what addictions steal from us and or that's what counterfeits steal from us, right?

Is the ability to find out what am I really what am I really after? What is what is my true desire? It's a worthwhile journey. I mean it is just what is it that I truly desire because I think that'll be incredibly powerful. Um there's definitely people who are appreciating this topic. I know David Hunt says that uh he's appreciating this and he'll have to go back and listen to the whole thing. Um but it is a very um important topic and um go just kind of piggybacking off of what Dr. White said again.

do share. I'm not an addiction um counselor specialist. I don't specialize in addiction, but um I of course I do um I'm dealing with clients who are dealing with different health mental health issues with anxiety, depression, and they also are addicted to some substance, whether that's weed or cigarettes or these different things. And when we're doing, you know, talk therapy, um, you know, where we start to get into what are some of those base issues, like you said, what are some of the feelings that you're trying to numb through, um, taking these different substances?

Um, and so dealing with that and going to the core foundation of these issues, I find, is is very helpful in the recovery process of recovering from any um, addiction. Um, and because a lot of times people start at such a young age and covering up these emotions and just not wanting to feel the pain of that or think about that. And if I can, you know, take a hit of something or drink something or smoke something uh that will make me forget about it, they will continue to do that every single day.

So, when we go and get to the root issues, it really can help um give some freedom and some relief. And that's not taking away from going to like a rehab and things like that, but it is helping to deal with the core issue of why you started down this path in the first place. Dr. White, well, I'll tell you something interesting. So from time to time I remember in in treating uh someone with addiction um they may have had a loved one who passed away uh let's say like a year ago but they had escalated their drinking shortly after that person passed away and now in treatment where they've been detoxed.

It's as if they're crying about it that like their their grief experience is as if it happened yesterday. Um as if the death happened yesterday. Now, why would that be? Because it's almost as if the substance, the counterfeit had interfered with their ability to process the grief, to experience the grief. And that's how profoundly we can be impacted by relying on a counterfeit. Once you remove that counterfeit, it's waiting for you. It's right there waiting for you. So now Joanne said, "I'm trying to figure out how to let that individual know that drinking alcohol is a counterfeit of cocaine.

Will he be offended or feel defeated?" Well, Joanne, these are the questions I would need to know in order to answer that question. I would, and I'm not asking to know them. I'm just like letting you know why I can't why it's hard to answer that question. I don't know your relationship with the person. I don't know if you have listened to them enough to build the credibility to where they would award you with having influence over them. Um I I don't know your understanding of addiction or recovery.

Um so I hope you just see there is just a litany of things that go into making a recommendation to a person. And the first is you have to be perceived as credible by that person. And part of being perceived as credible is being knowledgeable on the issue. Number two is them being clear. You're emotionally invested in them and them feeling like you've listened to me enough. The to the point where I'm literally asking you, hey, what are your thoughts? What are your thoughts? And what you'll find is people will often make recommendations prior to having earned the right to make those recommendations.

So I think Joanne's follow-up question then would be well what can I do you know and that's why that's why the professional consultation would be so critical because there is something to be done yes and I'm not I'm not minimizing prayer I'm a I I I believe prayer changes things um but I think that more can be done but I I want you to see why professional consultation is critical because then you can customize it to the situation. You can right happen. Hi Ashley, I'm very sick right now having seizures and being unable to enforce boundaries because I need his help and I have no other support.

How can I navigate follow through on boundaries? Boy, Ashley, that was powerful. Um, your statement on seizures is an important reminder about why. Oh, and I'm not saying, by the way, that this is like alcohol related. I'm just saying seizures triggers my recollection of something that we want to kind of warn you about, right? Um, sometimes there are people who they've been drinking a lot of alcohol and then for some reason they decide they just want to stop abruptly. And that is incredibly dangerous to abruptly stop alcohol outside of the care of professionals um and and medical professionals.

And the reason is is because it puts a person at risk for seizures um strokes, heart attacks, that kind of stuff because it can be incredibly dangerous during withdrawal, especially if you're outside of medical care. There are things that need to be managed. There are conditions that need to be managed um that sometimes it's not obvious. I remember when I was detoxing patients, we were dealing with things like their blood pressure shooting up, heart rate shooting up massively. Um and we would have to medicate them.

we would have to treat them with something that simulated alcohol and then we would taper them off to safely get them through their uh their withdrawal period. Um so Ash, thank Ashley because it reminded me just to talk about that a little bit. But this Ashley I mean this is complicated. that situation is incredibly um complicated and it definitely warrants getting some professional support. Now, I've said that many times and so some of you may wonder, okay, well, let's say I'm on a shoestring budget and but I need professional help.

What are resources that would be available to me? A lot of times you can get some pretty excellent resources at the county level. Okay. So, out here for me it's the county of San Bernardino. Um there's adjacent to it county of Riverside. And these counties really um try to empower themselves to be able to meaningfully impact a population and address their mental health needs including their addiction needs. So, I would definitely investigate at the county level what's available to me. Obviously, if you're insured, you want to contact your insurance and check in and see um what is available to you.

You can go to your primary care doctor and you can again you can ask and find out, hey, what's available to me? What might be a therapist that is that that actually has expertise in this area? Um then of course there's your 12step communities. sometimes in the 12step communities again you might learn about resources that are you know available in in in your in your area. Um but Ashley super complicated question. Thank you for the courage of you know asking a question like that. Um but it it really deserves some customized attention.

Yes. Okay. This is going to be our last question but definitely let's take this. Since I stopped using drugs and alcohol, I feel like I've lost touch with my intellectual feelings. But in addition, two and a half years ago when I was still using, I was stabbed in a coma for and I was in a coma for um three days. Let's see. So, lack of oxygen in addition to copious amounts of drugs have played a role in my memory loss as well as what seems to be uh dissociative disorder. Any thoughts on that? So, Christopher, um, if I were you, uh, I would pick up the book, um, The Brain That Changes Itself.

The brain that changes itself, um, because I would be I would be investing in in personal mental health rehab. I would be stimulating my brain like crazy. I would be trying to learn languages. I'd be trying to learn, you know, different activities. I would I would be communicating to my brain, I'm not done with you, right? I'm not done with the neuroplasticity and it can happen. I would be triggering neuroplasticity. In that book that I'm recommending to you, the brain that changes itself, it has these amazing stories of people who had suffered like massive strokes.

you're talking about like anoxic injuries and I'm not I'm not minimizing that but these are people who suffered massive strokes but because their rehab was so aggressive they were able to get amazing recoveries amazing recoveries um but just the idea but the general picture of what I'm describing Christopher is I would really want to stimulate my brain I would want to challenge my brain I'd want to read I'd want to think I'd want to memorize scripture I would want to learn languages. I would tell me what you do for a living.

Uh Christopher, um just it it'll kind of help me kind of frame my my advice to you, but I would um I I would really want to, you know, stretch my brain. um right being patient and loving with it because I'm not saying overwhelm it, but I just mean as much as it would allow me to, I would want to grow and I would want to get better at my activities. I would want to really apply myself. Um because the brain is capable of change. We are gifted with a neuroplastic brain and it it tends to to to have the ability to help us with the activity of our choosing.

It's the most beautiful gift I feel like that God gave us in our body. He's a farmer and a carpenter for the past 20 years. So, I would be I would be developing I'd be trying to learn new aspects of of of carpentry, you know, as much as it's safe or whatever, you know, because I don't I don't know your particular situation, but I'd really want to be trying to develop my skill to become really proficient. I'd want to do everything I could to communicate to my brain, I'm not done with you. And talk about the vitamins that I'd be going after.

I want I would want to just love on my brain with nutrients. Love on my brain with sleep, love on my brain with oxygen. Um uh so you got your B12, you got I mean it's just and and YouTube is right there. So there's so much we do research to find out. Oh, there's so much my brain um the brain canate. That's right. Yeah. There's the book right there. The brain that changes itself. It's beautiful. It's beautiful. Yes, the book is beautiful. Well, um I'm glad you guys loved this topic um because yeah, it's been a you know, it's was great um to share with you this evening.

Uh there's so much there and and there's still um possibly more to talk about. We will be back next week and so look out uh for that, but definitely share this on your social media. Share it with your on your social media with your family and friends. um because even if they're not struggling with this themselves personally, they have a friend or a loved one that they can um learn and and to grow and just to just to have this knowledge for themselves. So definitely share this on your social media.

And thank you again Dr. White. Thank you so well for being our producer behind the scen. Yeah, don't forget the stress mastery webinar this Thursday at 700 p.m. Pacific. 7 PM Pacific. You know, I know we're all stressed out. Come out. It's free. Yeah, it's free. I think we're going to put it up there again. I think that's going to go back up there so you guys can see that. And um yeah, I think it's going back up there. But it's uh the the master the mastermindstitute.com/webinar and you'll be able to get that information.

Um and if you missed that, we put it up before you can always do the replay and play this back so you can see. So don't miss it. Tell your friends. Tell your friends because there is stress everywhere. Everywhere. Yes, it's in the chat there. So definitely click that link. Be safe everyone. Always a pleasure. Always a pleasure. I'll see you next week. We'll see you next week. Bring a friend. Bring a family member. Uh we love to see you here on Mental Health Monday. Have a good evening. Bye-bye. Thank you.

Till next time.