Welcome, Mental Health Monday family. It's so good to be here with you. Uh we've missed being here with you for the last two weeks, but we've been doing lots of big things in our families. We've had great uh celebrations uh going on um in our family and Dr. White's family. We've had three graduations. His daughter, our daughter, and my husband also graduated. So, we've been doing lots of things. Um, and just been so blessed by God. But we're so happy that you are here with us, but we missed being with you guys the last two weeks and we're happy to be back.

How are you, Dr. White? I'm really good. It's interesting how much we mirrored each other because your daughter graduated and your husband. I I I see you and I hear you. I don't hear you. I see you. So, I'm going to try to fix my audio so I can I can hear you. Testing one, two, three. Testing one, two, three. It's not okay. I think if I see then if I turn that up, I will echo. So, we don't want that. Testing one, two, three. Testing one, two, three. Testing one, two, three. Right. Can you talk again?

Testing one, two, three. Testing one, two, three. So, I don't hear you. Okay. So maybe you can say some welcomes to our audience while I'm trying to figure out how I can hear you. No problem. No problem. Well, well, I do want to say welcome. Hopefully Clint is here. Um but uh yeah, it's it's interesting how much uh I mirrored uh Sister Tante because her husband and daughter both graduated and my wife and my daughter uh both graduated. My my wife earned her uh doctorate in nurse practice and uh my daughter of course got her bachelor's in uh public policy.

So yeah, it's it's it was amazing how much we mirrored one another. Good to see you Clint here. Um yeah, if you can put in the chat where you are coming to us from. Um of course I know Clint is coming from long long something. Um but uh but but always a pleasure, man. Always a pleasure to interact with you. Uh let's see if you can put in the chat where you're coming from. We would really appreciate that. Yeah, this is graduation season and it is amazing how easy it is to see a person graduating or see the high points and say, "Hey, I want that."

not being aware or connecting to the sacrifice, the toil, the difficulties, the sweat, the tears that's involved in that journey to get that thing that you're really after. So, yeah, it's absolutely um amazing. Long view, I knew there was some longs. Yes, Clint. So, long view and I believe it's Texas if I'm not mistaken. All right, I see Sharon Howard. Uh, greetings to you, Sharon. and she is coming to us from southern New Jersey. I wonder if you're near the oranges cuz I know there's uh there's some oranges in uh New Jersey.

Um let's see. Anybody else? Um yeah. So yeah, we're here with Mental Health Monday this uh this time and what we're going to be talking about is we are going to be doing questions and answers. So, we so regret when like the, you know, questions flood in at the end. Um, so be sure that you get your questions in the chat because we want to be able to address as many of them as we possibly can in the one hour that we're going to be spending time together. Uh, and have you noticed how quickly it goes?

So, we absolutely want to make the most out of it. So, we are taking your your your mental health questions and we are committed to bringing as much value to you as possible. Uh, let's see. All right, we got Crystal Cox from Spokane, Washington. Hey, Crystal. I'm so glad you could be with us. Uh Crystal is a longtime uh member here at uh Living Mana and it's definitely great to see you. Great to see you um in our chat in our midst and and benefiting from the program. All right, let's see. Um who is going to be that first person with a question?

Who's going to be that first person with a question? Yeah. And what a wonderful time we had um last time we met uh where yeah we got some really great questions. Questions about communication um boundaries often comes up. Uh let's see. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you. Okay, I can hear you. I missed everything you said. So all the welcomes all the welcomes that Dr. White said to all of you and yeah, we're thankful to be here. You do the welcome way better than I do. That's for sure. No, you were you were you were I didn't hear you, but I you were smiling and they're all here.

So, you did just fine. You did just fine. Um Yes. And I saw Clint was here and I said, "Hi, Crystal. I did hear you." As soon as we turned on, I could hear you again. You were saying, "Welcome Crystal Cox." So, want to welcome you too, Crystal. Great to see you here with us this evening. Always good to see you. So, I'm not sure if we have any questions yet. I'm sure they're gonna We do have a question. We have a question. Yeah. He asked the questions. Have y'all ever had any clients that just seemed as if they couldn't be helped?

You know, Clint, you know what's really funny about this? I remember like there's certain clients where what they explained seemed so overwhelming and you're like man I don't know how I would handle that but fortunately I asked the question so hey what are you going to do and they were able to immediately be like well all I have to do is this this this and then this this and this and then we'll just take it um and then we'll just take it from there. So the the point being sometimes what might seem as an impossibility to you to that person they actually have a way of dealing with it.

Um, Clint, to answer your question explicitly, I have rarely if ever I cannot remember a situation where I walked out of the room just thinking there's nothing that can be done except of course if the person wouldn't participate in the treatment or if they rejected the treatment. That's the only time there's nothing I can do is if they won't participate. But as long as they're willing to participate, I found avenues to help them. What are your thoughts, sister? I I agree with you and that's been my experience as well.

Um I always tell my clients that you know coming to their hour therapy appointment um is just um that's not where all the work is done. It's when they go home and they start, you know, putting in the work that we talk about. um encouraging them to to make whatever changes maybe or taking some of the uh tools that we talk about and actually implementing them into their life on a daily basis and being intentional about that. That's where the work is done. That's where the real hard work is done on a daily basis.

And so if they're not willing to do those things or if they're just kind of halfway doing them and not taking it very seriously, then they can be helped but they're just not doing what they need to do. So that's been my experience. And then on the other on the flip side of that, I'm always so amazed at those clients that are so good at doing their homework or so good at doing using the tools and I when they come back, I'm just I'm thrilled for them because they they're making changes. Their change is happening pretty quickly.

Yeah. Well said. Well said, Sharon. Thank you for this question. How can senior couples connect and keep their finances in check? Well, um I think part of the answer is in the question. Um because I think connecting is a big deal. I don't know about you, but I bet you anything you guys have this nailed, you and Pastor Aore, because you guys do your weekly dating, right? And I think one of the things that's easy for us to not do as couples, especially when we're both super busy, is a regular meeting time.

Sharon, uh, put a one in the chat if you and your partner meet regularly, like especially like once a week, a minimum of an hour. Um, because that solves so many issues. And if you treat it just like you would your typical board meeting or business meeting, then now you can divide it into various factions. you know, uh I I talk about the seven vitals all the while. Well, it's just a wonderful framework to comprehensively approach your life because now that meeting could address all seven of those vitals and one of the vitals is resources where you would talk about finances.

And so with that regular meeting, I think it's a it's a space for you to deal with finances, make sure that there's alignment and and deal with the hiccups. And here's the most important thing about that. You're not now having these crazy meetings when one spouse is heading out the door. You know, like you get these moments that are not conducive to good communicating at all. Right? Mhm. And if you're not meeting regularly, you can get hijacked into trying to solve issues in moments that are really not conducive to congruency, alignment, and moving forward as a couple.

What are your thoughts, Sister Tante? Yeah. Um, you know, it I also like to share u what Dr. John Gottman um talks about. He uh talks about a weekly business meeting. Um and again if you've been a part of a of a church or on a on a well any actually all the members can come to the business meeting right but he talks about a weekly business meeting that the couples uh that thrive and are successful in their marriages they have the weekly date nights but they also have the weekly business meeting and it I just thought about what you said when about when to when to talk about these things.

So the weekly business meeting is really talking about all the administrative things of the home that it takes to run the home and family. So you're talking about, okay, when this bill is going to be paid or what the children have to do or the dog has to go to the vet checkup or, you know, I'm just administrative things of whatever about the home. So that when you're together, that's when all that's discussed and you talk about all those things that are going to happen in that week. Then when you spend time together, you're actually not having to talk about all the business stuff because you've already done that.

So you can spend that quality time just spending great time with your spouse, talking about your passions and funny things and connecting and all of those things, not business stuff. So that's helpful for seniors and for actually everybody for every marriage. Um because we we we can tend to um become we are partners. When you get married, it is your partner, but you can become almost like business partners and and just doing business stuff. And when you see each other, you're just talking business stuff and not, you know, the passionate stuff and how much you love each other and just having fun and maybe making dinner together or taking a walk and talking about the beautiful things and not the stressful things.

like there's a time for that. So, just really carving out a time to talk about those things and a time to connect, which are those weekly date nights. So, hopefully that answers her question. Yeah, let us know if that answered your question. All right, Keith is asking the question, "Hi, what do you do when someone doesn't accept something as truth? Obvious, objective, verifiable truth. For example, grass does not exist." Um, if we were in a therapy session or even a coaching session, I'd be like, "Keith, tell me more about that."

Right. Yeah. Really to unpack that. Unpack it. Like, say more about that. And And really giving Keith an opportunity to explain. Hey, wouldn't it be cool if we could bring people on live? I would I've thought about that. Let's talk let's talk about that off air so we can really maybe that will be season the first the beginning of season 4 I think since after the summer break let's talk about it because I think that really would be cool that would be really cool um I want to ask I just want to say to follow up with Keith um or really just to say that if you know you can't control this person you can't control other people so unfortunately this friend or this person that you know doesn't want to believe uh truth, there's really nothing you can do about that.

Um you don't have the power to to to change them. Um and so I wouldn't waste a lot of your my time and energy on that. You can pray for people to to grow in areas that they need to grow. Um and yeah, like Dr. White said, if we were in therapy, I'd ask you more questions. But just just off of what you just said, um I would say let them be who they are and pray for them to help that they will realize that the grass is green. Yeah, I would I would need more details to comment on that. For sure. For sure.

Jason said, "If a person doesn't feel connection with any human, should they stay single?" I I can't wait to hear what your thoughts are on this. Um cuz on a controversial level, Ellen White mentions there are some people who should not get married. Well, and I I think it's something people people kind of approach dating as if everyone is kind of made for marriage when in fact there are some people who according to Ellen White anyway are like unsuitable for marriage. Now that I don't know what the context where she was coming from.

I'd have to read that quote. But but but but go ahead. I'm gonna let you finish. Go ahead. Go ahead. Continue. Well, well, whether you agree with her or not, Mhm. the bottom line is you should devise your own criteria for how much connection do you need. So, if you check in with yourself, you're going to see that you need two things along the realm of this connection. You need time to connect with yourself. You need time to connect with that other person. Um, that other person needs time to connect with you and that other person also needs time for themsel, never mind time with other people and all that other kind of stuff.

And you you have to determine what is the equation that will work for you. So obviously there will be equations that will not work for you. M some people you're going to see how much time they need to spend with themsel alone with family and friends with their job and you're going to make the decision you know what I need more time other people they would be so smothering that you'd be like you know I need more space and so I I just want you to see that whether or not there's some humans that should stay single the bottom line is when you establish your criteria, there will it will be pretty clear who fits and who doesn't.

Um, so yeah, again, I can't go off that quote because I haven't read it for myself and I know you read it, but I would love to see the context of what she was saying there. Sure. However, I would say um that I think a lot of people who do get married have not done the work on themselves to be prepared for marriage. That's why there's so many issues. And when I say that, I mean there are so many traumas from our past that haven't been dealt with and from both partners, right? And then they get married and then they find out like this is so hard.

I have, you know, and then they find out, you know, all my issues that I've had all all throughout my life, like they're really so prominent now that I'm here in marriage. And so it was never dealt with. So, I would say that for this person, if you have a hard time connecting to um well, here it says with any human. So, definitely if you have a hard time connecting with any human um those are your words and and you have a hard time with emotions and things like that and sharing those emotions or even receiving maybe positive emotions back from another person.

I'm not sure. We don't have the details, but I definitely would want anyone that is feeling that way. And if you're feeling that way, Jason, I would love for you to meet with a mental health professional because there's a reason for that. Like you like God gave us emotions and feelings to connect. Like we're not There's a My husband's Jamaican, so my my Jamaican mother-in-law always says like no man is an island. Meaning you weren't meant to be by yourself. And God didn't mean for us to be by ourselves.

And I'm not saying I'm not here to say every I don't can't say it's God's will that every single person be married. I'm not saying that. But if you're having a hard time connecting to people in general, um he doesn't want you to be alone. Like uh he didn't want Adam to be alone. So he created Eve. Um and we have we have all of these emotions and feelings that God gave us and created in us not to not connect with people. So I think that you know talking with a mental health professional to just see where that comes from um and how you know just talking to them more about that would be very beneficial there to say there is a personality type called skitsoid personality if I'm not mistaken it's skitsoid right it's a cluster this is a cluster C um personality where these are people who love to be alone they love to be alone these are people who like for example They love the night shift.

Um, and again, it's a it's a personality disorder, but it's called skitsoid. I believe it's skitsoid. It's been so long since I've, you know, seen this, right? But, you know, they and sometimes they do their job so well like they might get a promotion and now have to deal with people and then that's when things kind of unravel because they love being alone. So, this is not to discount what Sister Tante just said because we were made God when we're functioning and everything is normal, we were made for relationship.

That's true. But Sister Tante, I found the Ellen White quotes. Well, I'm glad you found it. So, this is messages to young people and she writes as follows. There are persons who have not been trained to self-denial and who are so full of their own plans that they have no room for the plans of others. Such persons should not marry. Now, now that right there makes sense. It kind of goes with what I was that makes sense right there because they haven't dealt with their stuff. So, okay, go ahead. That that makes sense.

That's messages to young people page 452. Now in the Adventist home she writes there are persons who have no idea what constitutes a true home. They are not prepared to marry. They would bring into the marriage relation their unambiable traits of character. The Adventist home page 44. So those both those both of those together are I understand where she was coming from there. But I ag but my point still stands that those two things they think things things can change like they they may not know now or like what you like to say until until now like you know I mean if they if they become aware and realize I think like what Jason was saying like hey I just don't connect to people very well and he goes and gets the help and the healing he that story can change.

Do you see what I'm saying? even those who don't understand how to like Ellen White was saying how to have a healthy home that can change too. you can learn that. You know what I'm saying? It's not like, well, you don't know it, so this is an impossibility. But, um, but it makes sense what she was saying now. The quote makes sense now, for sure. And Jason probably wasn't asking for himself. He was asking for Yeah. I'm not Maybe it wasn't for Jason. He was asking for a friend. So, just FYI. Um, but uh but no, no, you like you said, Sister Tant, you said a lot of times people are not necessarily prepared.

And what you're opening up the door for is that with preparation, maybe then they become suitable. All right. Now, I'm going to put up this firecracker. Uh, my friends just my my friend just passed away and her aunt is causing a ton of drama in the family. Sincer's condolences to you um as a result of the passing of your your friend. Sincer's condolences. And you said her aunt is causing a ton of drama in the family. She's being manipulative, greedy, controlling, and a bulldozer to everyone. How can they navigate through her behavior?

This is where the book boundaries, I think, is just so vital. Two books I would think about. Number one is boundaries because it it's it's always the same thing. You're you're always looking at making sure that your boundaries aren't violated. Have you drawn your boundaries? Have you educated the person about the boundaries as well as identified what the consequences are for violating the boundaries and then exercising them? Obviously within the extent of the law. And then the other book that's I think helpful in these kind of situations is the book Crucial Conversations.

crucial conversations when the stakes are high. Um, I I think it can be incredibly uh helpful to understand how best you can you can you can set boundaries but then have those conversations and maintain them in a productive zone. Um, you know, clearly sometimes people are misdirecting their grief in in a less than productive fashion. And so sometimes just, you know, kind of putting your arm around the person and saying, "Hey, what what is what are you experiencing? How are you experiencing this can be tremendously helpful?"

Um, what are your thoughts, sister? Yeah. Um, you know, I just looking here, she is being manipulative, greedy, controlling, and a bulldo bulldozer to everyone. Um, and so you're right, meaning the boundaries is to not like you can give somebody so much room to get so close to you to even be able to control. You know, it sounds this is a auntie, right? And these are other adults. So what is you know you you if you set a boundary you can like almost like push her back some like she doesn't have direct access to you.

Um and then there's a book by Mel Robbins. I don't know if I mentioned it here but it's a new book that she put out and it's entitled let them. And I just thought it makes so much sense. It's so simple meaning when let them meaning the family can't control her. They're not going to change her from being controlling or manipulative and being a bulldozer, right? But once she realizes that the family is not she's not getting the rise or the reaction or you know any of that from them, what drives her to be that way is not going to be um as she's not going to be as motivated to be that way to make it simple.

Um, and so instead of stressing out about, you know, all of her behav behaviors, set a boundary and in your mind mentally just say, "Let her." Like, I can't, you can't control her. Like, what are you going to do to you can't control her you can just set a boundary, make your mental state and mind u be at peace. Um, and that's not an easy thing to do. And this is a difficult time because it's a grieving time. Just lost a loved one. But not allowing um someone that you cannot control to just like they say take space take or or take space in your your mind and you're wasting all this time and you're not even able to control or stop them.

It's a waste of time. I would just say let her but set boundaries so she can't get so close to you. That was what I would say to that family. You get the last word on that question. All right. Um, so this is from Deborah Hailing. Everybody feels some level of depression at certain periods in their life. How do you know when it becomes serious and help is needed? You want to take the first step or you want? Well, I was going to say there's a criteria to for for someone to be diagnosed with um major depression disorder.

And you have to, you know, you have to have those feelings of um just feeling, you know, just so sad that it's hard to get out of bed, hard to take care of yourself, like hygienewise, or just just have no um just no just no care, just don't have desires to do anything. And if that sadness lasts longer than two weeks, then you're considered to have major depression disorder. And so, um, I would definitely reach out to want to talk to a mental health professional if you're experiencing something similar to what I described.

Okay. Um, yeah. So the the idea being that I would pay attention to function and so you if your mood is so from time to time something will happen and your mood of course will be down but you can still function. Uh the symptoms often they're short-lived they're contained but you can still get out of bed you can still go to work. you can still do the various activities of daily living that we need to do as humans. So when we're talking about a clinical depression, um it's the person now being debilitated.

They can't get out of bed. All right? They're not attending to hygiene. Um they're what else? What else? they are um uh sometimes progressively thinking about harming themselves. Things are getting so bad. So so function and severity of the symptoms are what determines um whether you need to get clinical attention. Um so that that's the big way that I would simplify it. And then Deborah came back with a follow-up question and she said, "Why is it when a person is depressed, why does light, whatever type, seem to bother them?"

Um, you want to take a stab at that? I'm sorry. Okay. Um, why when a person is depressed, why does light Okay. Why does light whatever type seems to bother them? Like sun. You're talking to Deborah. I'm sunlight. You're talking about sunlight. when you're saying light, you know, I can't hear you, Dr. White. Okay. What? Say that. Say that again. Okay. I'm sorry. Okay. So, I'm I think I'm a little confused on a question. It says, "Why when a person is depressed, why does light, whatever type, seem to bother them?"

So, I'm guess you're talking about like the light like sun sunlight and lights in the room, those type of things. Um, I'm gonna take a a stab at this like, um, I know that when I'm working with clients with depression, um, I have a client now and it's a tellaalth, so I can tell like they're in their room and at the first session the room was dark, like the blinds were down and the the shades were closed, you know, they just didn't bring a lot of sunlight in. And I said, you know, one of the things that I want you to do is I want you to open those blinds every day to bring um light into light into the room.

And I would say like their mood of depression makes them want to be so much in the dumps that they don't even want sunlight to come into their room. Like it's just that that's too much of a happy looking thing and they just don't feel the emotion of happiness. Um, but I believe that when we are depressed, definitely getting outside, getting fresh air, walking, getting sunlight, that all helps with our our state of our emotions. I mean, it's not doesn't fix it all. It doesn't fix it, but it's it's a component that can help when you're feeling down and sad, right?

So, uh, great question, Deborah. Um, I'm going to piggyback off of what, um, Sister Tante just mentioned. So there can be sensory sensitivity. Um depression can heighten your sensitivity to stimula like light. Um especially ma major depressive disorder with melancholic features atypical depression or if it's comorbid with anxiety. Um depression often involves disregulation of the autonomic nervous system. So that's um the sympathetic and the parasympathetic nervous system. So bright light can worsen symptoms like headache, eye strain, dizziness and and even like irritability.

Depression can also classically be associated with fatigue and sleep disruption. So a depressed individual can often suffer from insomnia or hyperomnia. They'll have poor sleep quality, but their circadian rhythm can be thrown off. And um when you're sleepdeprived or biologically misaligned then um even moderate light can be harsh or draining. It's like being in light is kind of draining and the person's already kind of energy deplete. And then remember there's also seasonal affective disorder confusion.

So when light therapy um so it's true that light therapy can be a treatment for seasonal affect disorder but at the same time some depressed individuals initially feel worse when exposed to bright light and uh again this might be due to their misalignment of their biological clock. And then last but not least, um there can be some comorbid conditions uh that occur uh with depression. Things like migraine, um uh things like post-traumatic stress disorder. So there can be quite a variety of reasons as to why people experience um or have a difficult time with bright light.

Oh, that one went that one went away. I was reading and it went away. What? Uh, oh, there was another question by Sherry Love, I think. Um, okay. Do you have any techniques or books recommended? Okay. Do you have any techniques or books to recommend helping someone whose family of origin has caused self-doubt in the way one perceives things to be? Man, can you imagine a family that has not contributed to self-doubt? Right. I was just trying to think of a book, but I can't think of a specific book that hones in just on that.

I don't know. Do you, Dr. White? Um, you know, of course, the book Codependent No More, right, is is kind of jumping into my mind. Mhm. Um but in dealing with self-doubt, you know, Mel Mel Robbins kind of writes about that and uh Bren Bnee Brown, I think, you know, they might have some good content on how to deal with self-doubt as I Yeah. And um emotional focus therapy. I don't know why my her name is based on Susan Johnson. Yeah. Susan Johnson. Just understanding the attachment theories. um I think could also help um with that as well.

Um has some good stuff in there. So Sherry Belove um you can look up all of those names that we mentioned and see what they have um out there and if any of those books that were mentioned would help um especially when you're talking about family of of origin. Um yeah. Right. And then last but not least, of course, it's worth mentioning scripture. I mean, because I think scripture is one of the most powerful tools to to validate you um remembering that you're a child of a king. Uh whether it's the proverbs that helps you to balance um self like valuing yourself but at the same time not being arrogant.

Uh so yeah, I I think scripture and one's faith can be really helpful in in in reminding us to not have um self-doubt. God has not given us a spirit of fear, but a spirit of power and a sound mind. That's some solid content. Crystal, amazing question. Um great question. Great question. Great question. Um um yeah this there is no this is it we can't give a cookie cutter answer to this because everyone is different and and is in a different space and their time frame is different um as far as like how quickly they they heal from the loss of a spouse.

[Music] Um, but I would say this, everybody's different. Um, but I still highly, highly, highly recommend, unfortunately, my, you know, my sister-in-law, she's a a young um, a young widow. And I I have another really good friend who just lost her husband about five, six weeks ago. Um, and so I'm very well, I'm familiar with you, Crystal, and I'm very familiar with their uh, situation. So I would what I would um recommend to anyone um is to take your time. There is no time to be like it has to be okay you're at a year point so you're fine now.

Like it could be that you're at a year point and you're you know that's okay. like everybody is different but you definitely I would encourage anyone in that situation any widow any widower would to take their time um because grief is just it's uh just so such a powerful thing that um is always it's always it's fluid. It's always moving and it it it can it can surface in in different areas. It it goes in different ways for different people. People grieve differently. And so giving you yourself that time to fully grieve um and and to be in a healthy space.

And really each individual should know if especially when they're working with a mental health professional. And that's what I would suggest to anyone who has lost a spouse to work with a mental health professional because you want to be in a healthy space with your grief before you could start considering uh dating. Let let me let me ask the question this way and hear your comment, Terry. What are the dangers of starting to date too soon? Yeah, you're you're not you if you're if you try to date too soon and you're not healed in a healthy space with your grief, then you're going to bring that trauma into this um new relationship.

And what what would that look like? It could it can look I don't know. It can look a lot of ways. Um you I mean if you're not you could choose the wrong person. You could choose the wrong person. Right. True. You could choose the wrong person. You can think that um their presence is you know their presence or you know is helping you get over the grief. But I feel like you should that shouldn't be dependent upon a person that you should uh be in a healthy space because you have kind of worked through the grief um with I I believe with a therapist or a mental health professional and then this person just comes into your life and they're like a cherry on top.

You know what I'm saying? It's not like you're dependent upon them to be happy and to not grieve your spouse as much because that just that just isn't the healthy space because that person can go away. They can leave. They can be gone and then you're just going to be right back. So yeah, but back to your point, you can definitely choose um the wrong person because you're just using them to kind of cover up the pain. So exactly well said, Sister Tante. And I I just felt like if we we can't give you what is too soon, but we can tell you the dangers of too soon.

Danger number one is ultimately you could choose the wrong person. And a a lot of times when we choose the wrong person, it's chosen from the platform of fear of loneliness. So the pain of being alone could drive you to choose the wrong person. And let's drill down a little bit more. Ultimately, people people will give you their warning signs. People will advertise their red flags. The question is, are you in a mental state to detect them, right? And that's part of this too soon part. When if you're dating too soon, you can't even detect the um the red flags.

I don't know about you, but I I don't know if you've ever been driving and you've been driving too long. There's a point where your brain isn't processing the information that's coming in. Your eyes are open. You're you're you're awake, but you're so tired. you're not as responsive as normal to the information that's coming in. And that's the that's the danger that a widow might be vulnerable to, right? And um and this is for Crystal and anyone else when you're and yes when when you're having children, young children in in the situation, you have to be even more careful on how you're moving forward when you're doing that.

So just saying that in general to anyone. So and so that was just one thing is like you might end up choosing the wrong person. You haven't healed. um you you some of the some of the things that issues you might have had with a past partner, now you're projecting onto this new partner, right? Um and if the relationship was formed when you had this need, heaven forbid, now you heal and you're like, I don't need this relationship. Like, I don't know what was going on when I formed it. So again, we don't know what too soon is, but we do know the dangers of too soon.

And those were just a few, right? Um, to answer that question, great question, Crystal. It was a great question question. And Veronica, thank you because and I don't know why that book didn't pop into my head. I I recommend that book to my clients all week. But this is for Deborah's question. Um, Veronica said, "The Body Keeps score could also be um a good book. It does deal with trauma specifically, but the person, you know, that Deborah asking the question, the person could be going through, there's pieces in there that could definitely help um with family of origin issues because usually there's trauma with family of origin stuff."

Um, okay. So May said, "Is it normal for individuals in a relationship and now about to get married to talk all their wing hours?" Talk all day. Oh boy, do I remember those days. Normal for two individuals. I remember those days. You remember those days where you would talk into They talk about the the wedding all the time. Is that what is that? Is that what she is that what this No, no. I think it's talking into the sunrise. Like you talk so long. Oh, okay. Okay. Goodness, I totally missed that, guys.

I was on an early flight this morning. I think I'm tired. Okay. Okay. It's normal. Okay. Yeah. Um Yeah. Yeah. All it's it's kind of it's kind of a sign of infatuation. And it's really cool. I got to tell you, man, it is so cool when you continue to enjoy your partner past this honeymoon phase, right? Like you just really like talking to each other. You like being with each that's such a beautiful thing. Yeah. You don't like you don't enjoy not being with them. Of course, you have to not be with them at times, work and different things, but you enjoy being with them.

Yeah. This is You're right. after the infatuation stage that should continue. It's funny something happened to my husband and I cuz this because we did used to talk um in the early early just getting to know each other till like 2 3 in the morning. We were talking on the phone and just yeah that would happen. We'd get to know each other on the phone. Um but it was this just this past weekend uh we were somewhere in um actually going to see my father-in-law. He's um in a nursing home. we were going to visit and um I think we were holding hands and the walking down the hallway and and this lady said, "Are you guys newly married?"

And we said I said, "No, not at all." She's like, "But you're you're holding hands." Like, "Oh, well, we like to hold hands, you know." Um but anyways, it's just, you know, you should always still date your spouse. That's my point. Like, Amen. Yeah. Always. Amen. Well said. Well said. But that that's beautiful when you can preserve what I called virgin love. That's just that's just beautiful. Yes. Beautiful. All right. We're still uh getting more getting more questions. But just to just to where that kind of the reason why that kind of stood out to me when that lady said that is when we were first married, we had just been married a few months and we were at a large church event camp meeting.

Like so any all the Adventists here know what camp meeting is, but and um we were holding hands and walking around or something and and this one gentleman said, "You guys are and then we really were newly married." He was like, "You guys have just gotten married." We're like, "Yeah, within the last year." And he said, "You won't be holding hands like that, you know, many years down the road or whatever." And then we made a mental note to be like, "We're always going to hold hands no matter what."

And you know, this is the camp meeting we were at for years. Like we would visit like once a year and we would run in to this gentleman and then we would still hold hands right in front of him so we could say, "See, we're still holding hands." Yeah. I mean, so anyway, absolutely. All right, we got more questions here. My husband calls me from work 52 times a day after seven years of marriage, so we still talk throughout the day. Yeah. Uh that's called being in love, Amra, just in case you didn't realize that.

That is That is uh Let me see. Veronica for you, Veronica. 35 years of marriage and we still hold hands. That's great. That's beautiful. That's beautiful. That is beautiful. Um Florence and I still hold hands. I will definitely That's what That's wonderful. Yeah, still hold hands. Computer froze. Thank you for your supportive comments. All right. Ammer says, let's see. How soon is too soon? We already addressed that. Yeah, great relationship uh questions. Great questions overall. We're almost out of time, but we're we have enough time to take a few more uh questions.

Well, let's see. Maybe All right, two more two more questions. Let's see who's going to be that person to ask that question. These have been great questions though. Absolutely. No, Crystal, thank you for sharing what you shared and it's it's quite a journey. Um, but yeah, you're you're definitely giving yourself time to evolve. Um, and yes, absolutely. When you're dealing with a family unit, that that that's part of it as well. Mhm. Um once in a while you'll see children who are in a sense kind of forbidding the parent to move on, if you will.

Yeah. And that's I just I just don't think it's the children's place at that point. I'm not and I'm talking about grown children. Right. Right. Right. And it's definitely not their place. No, definitely not. Definitely not. But I um you know, it's definitely not their place. It's not. Um, let's see. We had some questions. Barring things like cognitive decline and fearing that the person's going to be exploited or something like that. Barring those or if the person is just really a bad person and you're like, "Hey, mom, dad, that's not a good person."

But besides that, okay, Veronica, how do you respond to to family when they accuse you of loving loving your deceased husband's family more than you love them? H how do you respond to family when they accuse you of loving you? So I guess the deceased family of this family, they feel like you love those who have passed more than them. Well, I'm that is that's a very uh unique situation, but again sometime again you can't control the what people you can't control what people think. you can only control how you respond.

Um, and you know, speaking the truth to them. I mean, if you genuinely do like them and love them, you remind them how you do love and appreciate them and you show that to them. But again, if they can't take that and understand that and accept that, then there's nothing you can't do, right? Because you can't go on them and make them accept your love and appreciation and respect that you do have for them. Maybe they're just I don't know for whatever reason not willing to believe uh what you're saying or they don't they're not your actions for some reason they're not believing your actions that are showing that you do care and love for them.

Yeah, it's a very unique um situation. Um if someone that's in that Yeah, there's there's definitely limits at times. Um but you're you're bringing to mind concept. Don't get furious, get curious. Don't get furious, get curious. And what I mean by that is I would really utilize this as an opportunity to find out as much information as possible about why they feel the way they do, right? You know, here's this accusations. Hey, so you feel like I love my deceased husband's family more than I love you.

Tell me more about that. That's that's such of an important tell me more about that. And I and I mean give them a chance to really articulate where they're coming from and exhausted, you know, and just really hear them out. At minimum, you might walk away with some clarity as to what they're thinking and where the derangement is taking place, but at least you'll have absolute clarity. And at maximum, you might be able to pinpoint and speak with pinpoint precision as to what might help them gain some clarity.

That's at maximum. There's no guarantee, but at least you'll walk away being really clear about where they're coming from. Um, and being able to say, "Hey, I can at least see why you're thinking that way. I don't necessarily agree, but at least I can see where you're coming from. Um, and then you can at least take it from there. When we have clarity, then we can have movement. Um, but where there's obscurity, opacity, um, translucency, like when when we can't see, it's hard to make movements. It's hard to make decisions.

It's hard to draw conclusions. I There's a question that's not on there that I want to answer next, and that's this one. and this one that I'm looking at. But um do you can answer the one you can answer frankly speaking how do I prepare for single life after 30 years of marriage and then I'm going to take okay how do I prepare for single life after 30 years of marriage? Um frankly one of the problems that we struggle with as humans is valuing the phase that we're in. Mhm. A lot of married people are looking forward to being single.

A lot of single people are looking forward to being married. Uh employed people can't wait to retire and unemployed people can't wait to get a job. It's it's just this incessant inability to appreciate the moment that you're in. So with that said, frankly, if you're looking at single life, it might help to remember some of the things you sacrificed as a result of 30 years of marriage. Um, no question there are positive aspects of being married, but it does require some sacrifice. It does require on some level muting your personality.

My wife, for example, can't stand it when I'm listening to music really loud. Well, but I like listening to it. And I'm not even talking about super loud. But unless of course it's her song, then she likes it loud. Yeah. Then she's like, "That's my jam." Huh. Then she likes she likes it loud. But but the point is being there are times where you mute an aspect of yourself that now in your single life you can revisit that. Some people were wanted to be more artistic. They wanted to travel more. Uh they wanted to nurture a pursuit or a um hobby.

Well, now you can step into that. You can embrace it and and you can absolutely enjoy it. So frankly, the the goal would be, look, I'm going to try to avoid making the mistake of not valuing the phase that I'm in, and I'm going to make the most of it. As it aligns with your values and all and morals and all this other kind of stuff. Good, good answer. Good question. Um, so, um, Dakara has a question which is a great question. Is is it wrong to date outside of your faith? Do they have to be uh Seventh Day Adventists?

Why is it frowned upon in the church to marry outside of our faith if they are believers in Christ? So great question. Um the Bible talks I see you Takara trying to start some trouble here. So, no. So, you know, the Bible talks about not being unequally yolked, and you're saying, "Well, hey, they're a Christian. We both believe in Jesus, and that's fantastic. That's great." Um, however, there's more in the Bible than um I mean, Jesus teaches some principles that are not um adhered to by by everyone.

So, like let's just say, so the person you want to date that's not that's not a Seventh Day Adventist. Um, and um, okay, there's so many there's so many ways that we can talk about this. Like, let's just say if they're young um, and you're and they're you're young and you haven't had children yet, so you're going to have children together and grow this family together. And so you want to go to church, you're going to go to church on the Sabbath, and you know, this person's going to go to church um on Sunday, which it's not a sin to go to church on Sunday, but you know, you're trying to what are you representing to your children?

What are you teaching your children? It's very confusing to the children. Um then there's, you know, if you're a Seventh Day Adventist, you believe in this. You believe the dead know nothing, right? and maybe they believe they they can talk to their dead grandmother who they love so much who's in heaven now. You know, there's all these different thing. There's just so many different different things. And then just practical. So like you're wanting to keep the Sabbath at home and you want it to just be pure like 24 hours of just worshiping God.

And they're like, "No, the game is on, so let let's turn on the football game." I'm just I'm giving you real life examples here. I mean, it's going to be different in every situation. And that just you know that it's going to it can cause conflict within the marriage. Are there people who have done it and the other person they've done it and the other person actually becomes joins becomes a Seventh Day Adventist or they of the same faith? That's fine too. I wouldn't want somebody to to become um a Seventh Day Adventist or I wouldn't want them to become a Catholic or anything because of the other person.

like you need to want to do what you're doing because of your relationship with God and not because of another person. But there's just so many things. Those were just small little examples I could throw out there. It's really because it's not that they're not true Christians. It's not because they're bad people by any means. It's just it's it's difficult to operate a home um with two different belief systems. Well said, man. Well said. I I think let's start the discussion with Marriage is a 50% failure rate.

Okay, let's start there. That's already hard. I like to start there. Okay. It's hard when you do believe the same religion. I'm I'm saying I'm saying like your marriage by itself is a hard thing um with a super high failure rate when you think about it. Yeah. So given given the stakes because if you if if the marriage survives the legacy is so amazing the protection offered to the children I mean just amazing uh even the health that's conveyed to both people more men than women I'll grant you that but even the health that's conveyed out of this world right um but with something so high stake and yet so high risk, wouldn't you want to do everything possible to increase the likelihood of it succeeding given how challenging it is?

And and then you come and then you come at the issue of um 7th Day Adventist. One of the things that's unique about Seventh Day Adventism as a denomination of Christianity is it is peculiar. It is unusual. Um, our approach to the Sabbath, it's unique. I'm not talking about whether it's right or whether it's wrong. It's I'm just talking about what it is. From a doctrinal standpoint, it it is something taxing how we approach it. So, what that means then is there's it's ripe for so much conflict when a person approaches it in a different way.

Now that this is going with what Sister Tante was listing, but what I'm emphasizing is it's a 50% marriage is a 50% failure rate. Um, and the interesting thing is there are some statistics though that when there's increased compatibility that failure rate actually goes down. So, um just some things that I would want um to share. Um just I think um um Teresa had you might want to clarify a little bit that when you were sharing about she's I don't think well she I think she might have missed well you might want to clarify it a little bit after 30 years of marriage our relationship you missed that person that last thing you would think about what you couldn't do when you were married I think she's saying like she's been married 30 years she's not thinking about wanting to be single or I don't know.

I I don't know if it's connected to that. When you were saying married people, they're not being when you were talking about people not being hap happy in their present situation. Everybody's looking like married people want to be single and single people want to be married. Oh, no, no. Good, good, good point. Like that that is in no way to convey that you in particular, Teresa, were unhappy while you're married. That is no way to convey that. So, thank you for giving me the chance to clarify that.

Yeah. Um, I was just using that as an example of how sometimes we are we we don't enjoy a situation as much because we're distracted by what could be. But that obviously is not true for you, Teresa. Um, obviously is not true for you in in your situation. It seems like yeah, you loved all aspects of marriage and now you would just use that same talent and love aspects of being single. I think if in fact, you know, you you really did enjoy the relationship, you know, the way I believe that you did, I think you can go forward knowing your partner is thrilled to see you happy even in this next phase.

If if if if the relationship is as rich as I believe it was for you, uh I'm I'm sure your partner would want you to enjoy this next phase. Much the same way, Teresa, I'm sure you would want your partner um uh to enjoy, you know, singleness. You you would be sad to see them in some way muting their experience. Um but no, thank you for the opportunity to clarify. Um no, not everybody is unhappy in in marriage. In fact, there are a lot of people who are very happy in marriage. So, thanks for the opportunity to clarify that.

Yes. Just I think your biggest point really is like learning how to be happy um to be happy in the present in the space that God has you in at this at this time, right? not to look over and be like, "Be happy with right now." Married, single, this is where God has you be happy. If I mean, there could be things in the marriage that can cause you to be unhappy. I get that. But yeah, I think that's the general thing that you were trying to say, too. All right. So, well, we are all done for this evening.

Um, we want to thank you for your questions. They were great. you definitely um made you guys have great questions and they were all just all around like touching all different areas and so um we just really appreciate your questions. Hopefully by God's grace we gave you uh good answers. He probably gave you better answers today. I'm so tired today. I was on an early flight and then came and worked and so yes, but um by God's grace uh you were you were blessed and so we want you to to share this.

Definitely share this link on your social media. Uh people don't have to watch it live. They can catch it after and get they can't ask their questions, but they can get some answers to maybe questions they have as well. And um we want to to see you guys. We will not be here next week actually, but we will return the week after that. However, catch True Health Tuesday because uh Dr. Maria will will be here uh with you guys on Tuesday. you don't want to miss her wonderful program to give you all those uh wonderful tips on how to um eat a healthy life and how you how what you eat can actually be healing and helpful to your body.

So, you don't want to miss that. But we want you right back here in two weeks for another mental health Monday. And we are just so thankful you were with us and have a good evening. God bless you.