Welcome Mental Health Monday family. We're so happy that you are here with us again this evening. Um hopefully your week well it just started today but hopefully you your today Monday was a good day. I know I had a not as busy and hectic day I thought. So it was more relaxing. I still worked but uh wasn't as busy as I thought it would be. So, it's Wasn't as manic as usual, you know? Wasn't as manic as usual. How was yours, Dr. White? Um, it was it was it had its little ups and downs, but overall it was smooth, I would say.

All right. Um, it was overall it was smooth. So, I cannot complain. I refuse to. Well, that's good. That's good. And Clint is here. Good to see you, Clint. But you know, Scott was here before you were or at least he wrote in the chat before you did, Clint. So, I don't know if Scott's trying to be the first one because I feel like Yeah, but Scott Scott was here before you, Clint, but it's always good to see all of you. Please put in the chat where you're viewing from. And before we really start, please put this on your social media.

say, "Hey, if you guys have mental health questions from a licensed um psychiatrist and a licensed therapist, please tune in to mental health Monday. Invite people and share this on your social media for sure." Uh because today, I don't know if you guys saw the the uh last minute actually flyer that went out, but we are doing freestyle mental health Monday. So you guys are making up this program. Your questions are uh going to help us do this program today. So we are we are answering all mental health questions.

Uh just, you know, we're not your mental health uh providers, therapists, psychiatrists, but uh we're going to try to give you, you know, some some general answers as we always usually answer questions. Um but this time we are taking we don't have a theme. We're taking all types of questions, mental health questions and relationship, marriage questions. So you guys fill up our chat with questions because we want to answer those for you and we look forward uh to doing that. So um man, if I you know I'm just thinking back like if I would have you know what honestly I'm going to take us back.

Remember Dr. Laura? Do you remember Dr. Laura? She used to absolutely I used this is way before I even thought about becoming a mental health professional like way way before but I still I used to listen to her. I never called in but I would like hear her answer other people's questions. Now granted I felt like she could be a little nicer at times. I hope I hope Yeah. I hope Dr. White and I are nicer. I think we are. Oh man. She was she was so to the point, you know, just really to the point and and yeah, it was it was funny because she was a hit on the radio, but then on television it was so to the point it didn't land the same, you know?

It was So, so radio and TV are radio and TV are definitely different different type of audience. Yeah. It's like you could say like more maybe straight to the point kind of hardcore stuff over the radio a little bit easier than it like instead of they can't see you, they can just hear you and they can't see your facial expression and I guess also you can't see how the words are impacting the person, right? So, so it's it's very interesting but but yeah, definitely not the approach I've adopted mostly.

No, me neither. Not in therapy either. But however, she did like for her raw information, she had some good stuff. But did you have another favorite like person that I don't know? I'm trying to think. I was just thinking in my head like who did I used to listen to before I became a mental health? I can't even think. But Dr. Laura just pops out in my mind right away. I mean, you got the Gottman's. I I really like the Got I liked Gottman. But I actually learned go about Gottman's once I became um well when I was in school that's when I learned about the Gottmans.

That's true. But I definitely but now I listen to a lot of I I have I love listening to uh other people especially podcast with mental health professionals. I love to there's good like um yeah there's people that I like. So good. No, good point. Good point. So yes, but we're glad that you guys like us, right? So you're here. Absolutely. Thank you for being here. So, please um send put some questions in the chat. Remember, this is freestyle, meaning like we're taking all mental health questions. Um again, and we're also dealing with relationships and marriage, family, parenting.

It's it's all here, guys. We're we're we we'll we'll try to tackle all of it and do our very best, right? And if you don't ask us questions, we'll ask each other questions, right? Yes. Yes, we Yes, we will. We will. Matter of fact, we might want to start that start that way. Even though I don't have a question planned for you, um, let me I'll ask this question. This is just to get to know. Okay, there's one before I could even say it. There it goes. All right. What are some qualifiers of trauma?

Meaning, how can you identify trauma? That's a good question, Clint. That's a great question, Clint. I want to just take this I'll just I know you're gonna take a stab at it, too. And I just want to say that first of all, I I know that there are traumas with a capital T and then there's trauma with like a lowercase T. But it's still all trauma to that person whether because people would think I know even I used to think this way like you know if you haven't been sexually assaulted or physically abused or that type of thing you haven't suffered trauma, right?

Ouch. But that's far from the truth. Um, trauma can be being bullied as a kid on the playground or um, parents not letting not you never feeling um, like you had the right to say how you feel about things in a respectful way. I mean, these are just examples. I mean, that can be traumatic for a child and then you grow up still taking that into your adult life. Um and so there's there's many different types of traumas, but um it's you know things that um there's not just trauma impacts everyone differently.

Profound. So you can't just I for you can't just list it out and say okay if you have this this and this you've experienced trauma because everyone process it differently. What are your thoughts? What are your thoughts Dr. White? So, like like you said, I'm going to echo some of what you said because you said um there's there's going to be something of a variance, but I'll say for example, one level of trauma is when your boundaries get violated. Um so, and so now you can see that can occur on a spectrum.

Um you could just say there's a boundary of not being talked over, you know, that's slight. And then there's the boundary of you're touching me and I didn't ask to be touched, you know. Um, and you can see how it can progress from there. Um, there's also the trauma that's related to neglect. Um, one of the most profound things that happens in relationships is we make bids. We make bids. And for those of you in relationships, especially romantic relationships, please pay attention to this, right?

We make bids. And what I mean for example is you walk inside your home and you say that's actually a bid right from jump right but then you say something like man I've had a hard day that's a bid right that is a that is it can be a request for the person to say okay let me hear you and and what do people do a lot of times you had a tough day you should hear about my day. My goodness, that is an unanswered bid. And you just I know for me, I just feel it in my stomach. It's like my there's a little twinge, you know, when your bid goes unanswered, when your bid goes rejected.

Um, that's traumatic, right? That's traumatic. Um, and it's easy to not sometimes why we will always champion therapy so much is sometimes you didn't even know that you were being impacted by that way. You just know there's some people it's no fun to be around. You just know that there's some people when you're hurting, you don't want to be near them. And sorry guys, but a lot of times as Christians sometimes we'll do this kind of stuff. President, I have had a rough day today. You know, if you look in the Gospel of Mark, chapter 17, you know, it's like, you know, I love the gospel, but that's not really what I was talking about.

You should you should think about how what Christ went through for you. You know, yet again, another really, really good point. Christ did do a lot for me, but right now, I was just hoping that you would hear me, right? and and you know and so these are some of the things that these are some of the ways that we can not answer bids. It's subtle and yet profound. Um and it can be a little on the traumatic side. And then there is trauma. There's violating a person's boundaries. There is assaulting a person.

There is sexual assault. There is um so trauma is a huge topic, Clint. It's a huge topic, but um how do you know your boundaries are being violated? Your boundaries are by being violated. Your bids are going unanswered. Um these are these are some of the ways that um you can know that you're you're being traumatized. Sorry, a little we just addressed five minutes in a topic that you can get years of training in trauma. So just keep this response in that context. All right. How should a person deal with a bad feeling of guilt when forgiveness has already been given?

Hi Deborah, thank you for that question. And Clint, thank you for your question as well. Well, um I see you're still noodling, so I'll take the first stop. um processing it. Yeah, de Deborah first of all you know thank you for the question and man on some level I think we all have to deal with this one you know how should a person deal with the guilt you know so here god has extended forgiveness to us and sometimes that's the spiritual but in the horizontal sometimes people have forgiven us and it is hard to accept it one of the things that one would explore at that point Deborah is am I making this about myself rather than sometimes keeping the focus on that person.

So for example, keeping the focus on you know Christ has given me this gift. What if I focused on that? How awesome that he's given me this gift. Um what how generous and maybe maybe the thing that deserves my focus is understanding that generosity. Or if it's a human being here, this human being has meaningfully forgiven me. What if I direct my focus to that they've found it in their heart to forgive me? How generous. Um what are ways that I can actually celebrate that and reciprocate it and make sure I never do that again?

And and how generous. So you can see I can I can operate in the channel of gratitude, right? Or I can be selffocused. I don't deserve that, you know, and I just can't believe they did it. And one of the patterns you'll see in the thoughts is I I I don't believe it. I don't believe it. I don't You're making it about you. And when we focus inward, a lot of times we can often have problems from just a focus on ourselves. What are your thoughts? Yeah. No, I just want to say Deborah, that is a great question and I think that, you know, it's to be able to um receive forgiveness from someone that you have harmed or did wrong to.

um that can you know that it you you're happy that they're forgiving you but it is hard to deal with the the guilt and the bad thing that you've done. But the reason why you're the reason why a lot of times we struggle with uh guilt and just that emotion is we do feel bad about it but what happens is that we have a hard time for allowing ourselves to forgive ourselves for doing that thing. When you forgive yourself, you are actually saying, "I feel so bad that I've done this." And the only if true forgiveness for yourself is really the only way to really move forward with that is to turn from those ways and decide, I'm never going to do that again.

I never want to feel I hate this feeling. I hate the way I've made somebody else feel and I never want to do that again. And that's real true forgiveness for yourself to give yourself uh the strength and the power to turn away and never to do that again. That's profound. But I I in what you just said though, I heard you have to on a deep level feel I have value and I'm worthy of being forgiven. Yeah, that that's that can be a real challenge. Yeah, I'm worthy of being forgiven, you know. And I mean, this is where Christianity can be helpful.

We are children of a king, right? Um, and we were redeemed with blood and not cheap blood. Mhm. No, we were redeemed with very, very expensive blood. Um, so it's a mystery then why we wouldn't feel worthy. Um, but I I think that's that's where we we have to start thinking, no, I'm I am worthy of forgiveness, you know. I am worthy of forgiveness. But yeah, again, a huge huge topic. Yes. Yes. Uh, Clint, these are some huge topics. Um, next, I'm glad you and Amber can see the chat because I can't see the chat unfortunately.

I I did at the beginning, but I can't now, but that's okay because Amber's managing that. So, we got you. Yes, Scott. Dingus. Hello, Scott. He said, "I would love to discuss divorce and remarry someone that I'm equally yolked to. I would like to discuss divorce." All right. Maybe you could ask a question about divorce. So, rather than us launching into something that maybe is not scratching the itch, what is your question about divorce that we can direct some attention to? So, we'll be looking out for that in the Scott.

What specifically is your question about divorce? and then then we'll move to Jason's question in the meantime while Scott kind of specifies it a little bit. All right. Um, so Jason said, "What's the difference of seeing a coach versus a therapist? Can a coach actually help with deepseated mental health issues?" Yeah, great question. That is a good question. That is a good question because that that is that is something I mean coaching is something fairly new and when I say fairly new um that it's just very popular right now like life coaches or health coaches and all these different areas um the one of the differences between a mental health professional and a licensed therapist a psychiatrist a psychologist is that we have a a governing board that governs what we do.

meaning we're we actually are held accountable I should guess I should say to um a higher uh more than just ourselves like the coaching industry is not governed by anyone right now and I'm sure that that will change I'm sure that that will change eventually and because and I'm not saying that it's it's um that coaches you know they're it's bad that um they're not governed by any anyone one right now, but that's just the reality of it. So, we um have to license therapists or mental health professionals.

We have to work by an ethical standard. Um you know, if we do something wrong, you could call into our state board that licensed us and you know, we can get a a bad report, you know, that type of thing. But if a coach does something, there's no one to call um unless they are, you know, if they Yeah, there's just nobody to call at this time. But again, I think that will change. And so with that said, coaches have a lot of good things that they can share and help you with. Um they haven't been trained in the same way.

Um but it doesn't mean that they don't have any value at all. And that's what I'll say about that. What are your thoughts? Okay. So there's a different area of focus. Um, and so while therapists will focus on healing the past, addressing mental health issues, trauma, anxiety, depression, a coach more focuses on optimizing the present and the future. True. So, they're going to help with goals. They're going to improve performance um and um and they're kind of achievement uh focused. Mhm. Um therapists are more going to be working with somebody with a di a diagnosis, sometimes dysfunction, emotional pain that needs treatment, whereas with a coach, they're working with clients who are functioning but want to go from like good to great.

Um so really a coach helps with solving non-clinical, you know, issues most of the times. Um, with therapists, you're going to hear them do things like CBT, DBT, EMDR, you know, diagnosis, treatment planning, that kind of stuff. But, um, again, a a coach more focused on goal setting, accountability, strategy building, and motivational techniques. Um, and I could go on. Um, therapy requires a license, LCSW, LPC, U, LCSW, licensed clinical social worker, right? um or licensed marriage and family therapists.

Um that's our Atante. Um a psychologist um or even a psychiatrist like myself. Um so strict and we're and like you said it's uh a sister tante we are bound by strict legal and ethical regulations. Whereas with coaching, an official license is not required, though there are certification programs that exist and there much fewer legal regulations. So I can't practice psychiatry. I can't do psychiatry um in Maine and places where I'm not licensed to, right? But coaching I could do all over the US, you know.

So those are some of the practical differences. And so then he said, "Oh, go ahead. Go ahead. Is therapists um they also have different modalities that are like solution focused therapy that would be more like coaching because it's only solution focused therapy only focuses on uh the future like if you're using that modality and therapy like you know what do you what are your goals? What do you want to do? So, it's more like in the system of coaching, they don't go back and look at some of the past things that have brought you to this point.

Like in other therapies, they're going to take a look at your past and why this, you know, why maybe you feel stuck and you're not achieving the goals that you want, those type of things. But, um, so yeah, so I would say that honestly in therapy there is a lot of coaching that's going on, but there's a lot of other things going on as well. Um, right. Because yeah, there there's a point in therapy where we do want the person to be more future oriented and sometimes they're starting to thrive and so now you're going to shift your focus to more coaching styled.

Okay, well now let's build on that. And you do heal at some point. And so and the person will still say, "Hey, I want to grow more." And now you can continue to build. And sometimes, of course, you're going to do more coaching. So more a coaching approach than a therapy approach. So as a patient heals, you're allowed to do more coaching. But I think as a therapist is more able to understand the difference between, okay, now the person's healed, so now we can do more of a coaching approach. Right.

Absolutely. I love this qu next question. I'd like to take a stab. Um, I studied journalism, uh, but bad but bad news, uh, affects my mental health in some ways. I'm not practicing my profession. How can I deal with this Jacqueline? Oh, okay. Jacqueline. Yes, that's a good question and I the reason why it it I wanted to take a stab at it because I studied journalism too and um that was my first love. That was my very first love was to do journalism. That's all I ever wanted to do. And then, you know, life in the journey of life, God brought me into mental health.

And there was a time before I got into mental health where I definitely felt like, man, I'm not following what I originally wanted to do and to deal with that. But you're saying that like just working in the news industry affects your your mental health. And that's look with us watching the news, it affects our mental health. So you're not alone in that. it can affect our mental health because there's so um so many sad things uh that are happening just like one after one and then working in that industry.

So it's really about perspective um because I'll say this as a mental health professional I don't know you probably get this question a lot too Dr. I people say, "Isn't it really sad and hard to listen to people's problems all day long?" And I'm like, you know, and I, you know, I really tell people it's not being a mental health professional is not for everyone. It really isn't. I feel like I don't know. It's just like because there's certain I'm use my husband as an example. I always use him as an example.

He should watch Mental Health Monday more. You'd see I use him as an example often, but he is a very deeply empathetic person. Like I could see I couldn't see my husband's a pastor. You It's funny that I would say this, but and he can pastor and give therapy on like a certain level and not but if he had to hear the things that I hear on a daily basis, he would just be crying all day long. That's how empathetic he is, you know? Like he just can't. And I'm not saying I'm not empathetic, but it's just, you know, I guess when you're there for when you put yourself in the place, well, this is where this is the place you are in.

But when you put yourself in a place that they need my help, they need me to, you know, they're here for me to to help them, you know, and so with that mindset, I I'm hearing the painful things they're sharing. Um, but I'm able to process it and because I feel like because I'm not in the situation, I will have some answers for them to help them even though I'm being very empathetic with with them, but try to help them to get through this. So I said all that to say that if that is too much for you, there's nothing wrong um with stepping away and and maybe doing journalism in a different way um where maybe you're not producing helping to produce the news with all the sad stories, but you're able to in some way be a do journalism and and provide information without producing negative sad stories.

Okay, that's my shot. What's your answer? Well, first and foremost, you you were you were hitting it and like it's and you you you're kind of going to say everything I just said, but you just said it in a different way. Okay. Um, you know, and I know that when people come into you, they don't leave the same way, right? You know, you and and I and I know you're a phenomenal therapist and I know the way they came in, they often don't leave. That's why we can do what we do, right? Because it's not like we're just hearing sad stories and sad stories and like no, it's like you wouldn't believe the power of informed words.

You wouldn't believe it. You wouldn't believe the ability to reframe. Now, take Hua King for example. Um, yes, I would listen and hear, hey, how is the news impacting you? And why is that? And why does it position you that that way? Um, and and we would really delve into it. But at its core, journalism is just like medicine, which is just like law, which is just like nursing. It's so broad. It's so broad. So there's there's once you decide I don't like negative news like don't you wish we developed the GNN network the good news network like don't you love those network called that probably I wouldn't be surprised I wouldn't be surprised like imagine so we could find those stories that are so inspirational so inspirational you take the ugliest tragedy.

There's always these stories that just make you just give you chills. The generosity, the courage, the it's it's always there. Maybe we that's your calling that you find the beauty even in the ugliest situations, right? And and that's impactful, you know, or you just focus on beautiful situations. You find the beauty in the beautiful situations and you bring that to our attention. Because I tell you right now, sometimes when you listen to news, it tempts you to lose your belief in the beauty of the human story, but it's always there.

It's always there. It's a world of good and evil. Good. There will there will be evil, but you're always going to be able to find some good. And this is one of the things that I know I encourage my patients with that as as bad as that there are things that have happened if you pay attention there are some good things that are happening as well. And I was just going to say this I know it's going to another question but the joy that we receive when you see a client or patient the light bulbs go off or they're getting better and they just have made a perspective change and a change in their life.

It's worth the hours of, you know, listening to different, you know, different negative things to see them grow. It's just, it's worth it. Like I know I leave feeling very fulfilled. So, exactly. Exactly. It It's funny, Shereice, you go, "How do mental health professionals handle their own mental health?" A lot of mental health professionals are um go to therapy, but the the funny thing about it is I'm not a therapist. you you had to just out it like that, right? Um Well, because when I was taught in school like No, with this with the school, I mean, I went to they um you had to have an at least to graduate, you had to have at least I forgot how many hours of your own therapy so that you would know what it felt like when your clients to come to sit down and to be able to to share.

And I thought that was great because it was a good experience to just have to be on the other side of things. But no, but therapists need therapists. It's great. We have to keep our own mental health good. No question. And it's like a maintenance thing, you know? I f I make it a point to find people who I know listen well. Like I I'll say that because that's ultimately what I what I like. People who can who do a really nice job listening. that that to me is um super helpful. Um I can't say I go to my therapist all the time, but I have one.

So when I need to talk to someone, we're already established. You know what I mean? So, right, you you have your mental health team in place before the crisis, which is super smart. Super smart. Exactly. Now, the other really funny thing is you would think the hard part is the the the sickness that we find in the therapeutic setting. And what's interesting, shares, is it's actually the stressors around that that if anything are the most frustrating things, you know, whether it's, you know, third party payers or, you know, just like you you wouldn't believe the things around that because, as I was explaining to my mother the other day, like when you're in front of that patient and you get an opportunity to help them create some value Mhm.

And and you see them come in broken and walk out a different person. Yes. It's It's really like you It doesn't keep you down. It If anything, it it it Yeah. You Yeah. It's dopamine. It's probably like a It's a dopamine hit. Like, you know, it's like we feel good. It's spiritual. It's like It's just amazing. It's It's an absolute amazing feeling to to be a resource to a person. So no, it's not people just coming in broken and you just observing them and leaving them broken. You you help them on their path to healing.

And then that's amazing. It's absolutely amazing. It is. It is. Amra, how do I overcome haunting memories from my past from times I was an alcoholic? I capture my thoughts. I give them to God. Remind myself that I'm a new creation. But how do I overcome the spiritual attack? That formula that you just put is what what it what it really is. You said you capture your thoughts. I love that. Give them to God and remind yourself who you are. And that is just on repeat. I mean that just goes on repeat because um those memories are are still there.

and and you doing that over and over and over again. And I'm sure over time it's become less and less and less, but you're saying it hasn't gone away completely, but I believe that's still the recipe for success in that area. No. Well said. Um, you you said it, Sister Tanta, you said it, Amra, and you know, I'll I will add this to that. Um, you cannot erase memories, but you can crowd them out. Yeah, you can crowd them out. Um, memories, the essence of memories is the patterning of our minds. So, there's a thing called neuroplasticity.

Um, and so there are neural networks. They're grooves like think of the highway and and you know, but there are grooves. And the more we think, the more we hardwire those um those those grooves and those networks, the more we think about that thing, the less we think about it, um the the softer the grooves get and the and the neuroplasticity diverts itself to the things you're actually dedicating your thoughts to. So, Amra, an important strategy is build new meaningful memories. Yes. Awesome, beautiful, powerful memories like that beautiful man you're married to, right?

You know, it's like you create memories, you know, with them. I really admire you guys' relationship. I admire your story. Um, and it's it's something beautiful that you're doing, you know, and it's just generate the memories that crowd out those awful, you know, memories. Uh, and as far as these dark memories, the the true purpose for revisiting a memory is when you can draw power from it. Is when you can draw power. And if you can't draw power from it, leave it alone. The day may come when you can, but if you emerge from a memory feeling weaker, that's a hint.

Leave it alone. It it doesn't have a space in your future. Um, and you you leave it alone and create new memories. Right. This is why sometimes it's not the best idea to keep reciting those old stories and it's not always the best idea. Yeah. um build new sober stories. Sober um stories that are so awesome, so voluminous that they just crowd out the memory and you are taking up the real estate. You're occupying the real estate with new sticky powerful meaningful memories. Absolutely. Another Do you use CBT?

Do you use CBT? Um CBT I cognitive behavioral therapy. Yes. But go ahead. You can go ahead. I do. I do in my Yeah. So CBT is cognitive behavioral therapy and it's based on the premise that your mood impacts your thoughts and your thoughts impact your mood. Um so that if you want to change you know your mood you got to change your thoughts. Yes. And ultimately CBT gets at the linkage between your thoughts and your moods and your thoughts patterns. And so it has you do things like interrogate your thinking.

Is it valid? Well, then we have to abandon it. It's very systematic. Uh so it absolutely has its place. It's incredibly wellstudied. I don't think you can mention CBT without um discussing Aaron Beck uh the founder of CBT. And now, of course, his daughter has taken up the charge. You remember her name? I don't remember her name. Something Beck. It's something. I don't know if it's Linda Beck. I I forget her name, but she's definitely taking up the charge. Yeah. No, I definitely use CBT every day probably with clients.

I mean, in some way, shape, and form just to again to have them to just become more aware of their thoughts and their feelings and then their behavior. Um and yeah and like what you said challenging those thoughts those negative those automatic negative thoughts like we the automatic negative thoughts for the majority of our life have never really been challenged for most people right they just let them like fire off and we just accept them. But when you're understanding uh those negative thoughts are what create your mood and then your behavior and that once you become aware of the negative thoughts you're like wait a minute I can actually start to interrogate these thoughts put them on trial get new thoughts you know and and then like you said the neuroplasticity um we can have our brains can change our thought process can change um and so that is one of the therapies that when I use that it's just like it's they clients just feel so empowered because they're like I can have power over these negative thoughts because for most of their life they just felt like well I'm just a slave to this you know this is just how it has to be and what CBT helps to helps people with is to realize that it doesn't have to be that way this this is why reflective writing is so powerful um and sometimes if you just like write a brain dump.

If you just write and write, I I know when I'm really furious, when something has really angered me, man, it is so cathartic to just write right right. And then I look, I'm like, and there's no editing, right? There's no editing. So, I do it next to a shredder so that like I can write to my heart's content and make sure nobody's gonna find this, you know, and then I just shred it. And it's just it just feels so cathartic. But the the point is like you're you're like I didn't know I was thinking this way.

Um, now those are the thoughts that you don't want anybody to find. And then other times you're just journaling your thoughts. Sometimes your dreams, your aspirations, and it's it's so interesting when you read it cuz you're like, I didn't know I was reading. I didn't know I felt that way. And a really cool thing is sometimes years later when you revisit it you're like really I was thinking that you know um so without that kind of intention you might never realize the thoughts that are swirling around your head that are connected to your emotions and more important than that that are connected to your actions.

Right. So something to think about now Mr. Sneaky. I know Mr. Sneaky. That's Wow, Mr. Sneaky. Um, okay. Listen to this question. It says, "I've always felt like needing therapy means God isn't enough to comfort me. How do how do I view this?" Or are you asking how do we view this or how how should he view it? Or how should you view this? How should he view it? Yeah. Well, obviously we're Christian mental health therapists or mental health professionals. So um we we definitely believe that we can be used but along with what God is trying to do in your life and God obviously it to me is the ultimate ultimate uh mental health um therapist for everybody right but he can use humans and other humans to help you in your mental health journey and it doesn't mean to go to therapy that you are uh discrediting what God could do because I believe that what therapists can do is again help to um work along with what God is wanting positive things that God wants to do in your life.

Like he wants you to have positive um thinking and and and not automatic negative thinking and things like that along with a lot of other things that you may be dealing with. And so just like a doctor, I mean, God can heal. He could just touch us and heal us, right? But he allows us to be able to go to human medical doctors that can can help us um along the way. And the same thing is with the mental health professionals. We we by no means replace God um in your life. And you're not weak if you go to a mental health professional because you are a Christian.

And so whatever a mental health professional is telling you or or you guys are dealing with, you can still process that through uh your Christian understanding of what God wants for you and wants to do in your life. What are your thoughts, Dr. White? Well, thank you for validating that, especially as a pastor's wife. You know, um you know what's funny? Um with this question, Mr. Sneaky, I would refer you to one of the first therapeutic interventions found in scripture. And we actually find it in Genesis.

The the setup for it is where in Genesis, God literally says, "It is not good for the man to be alone." He literally says that. Mhm. Well, one of the things that happens in companionship is people being able to hear one another effectively. But now, when you think about our first parents, Adam and Eve, their emotional intelligence is off the chain. fact, after the fall, Eve is feeling pretty bad because she has just ushered in death. And up to that point, her name was woman. The therapeutic intervention is where Adam then says, "Look, your new name is Eve, mother of all living."

Here, this person has just ushered in death, but he renames her Eve, mother of all living. So in the face of such of an ugly event, notice the intervention. That's not a surgical intervention. That's not a physical intervention. That is a psychotherrapeutic intervention, right? And it it it begs the question, man, how are you impacting the people in your life in the midst of their mistakes? What are you calling them? So my point being, God invented psychotherapy. He invented it. Um, he invented our ability to help one another with words, observation, and insight.

Yes. Excellent. Very good. We have Ashley asking, "So, I'm a I'm new to the health message, and I listened uh to much of EG White. I'm very sick, so I'm trying to follow her counsel, but I'm in I'm in an unsupportive environment. any advice? So, what I'm hearing, Ashley, is that you are having some you're very sick, so you're having some health issues. Um, and your environment, uh, whatever that is, um, is is not really supporting you in your journey and trying to follow the counsel that, um, through the health message.

So that can be very very difficult when you don't have the emotional support um to make changes in your lifestyle. Um so I mean unless people are physically stopping you from doing things I mean if this is a decision that you have made for yourself and for your health you can't really look to others for validation. You know what I mean? You have to if like this is for your health. This is you said you're very sick. So this is for your life, right? This is for you to to to feel well and to be well and not to be saved in the kingdom like this makes you a better Christian, but for your physical for your physical health.

All right. Did you guys see the balloons? Did you see those balloons? I saw those balloons. I'm so glad you said that because I'm not imagining things. That's great. No. So I'm sorry, Ashley. But back to this. So, um, again, you're not looking again, if people aren't physically stopping you from eating this way and and maybe they're always I don't know. It sounds like I don't know if they're mocking you for the way that you're eating or or teasing the fact that you're not eating how they're eating.

I I'm not sure. But either way, you have to block out all that negative noise and always on a daily basis, it sounds like you're living in that situation. um remind yourself why you are doing what you're doing and what you're doing is what's going to help you to be um as healthy as you can be. I mean you're sick and so maybe it's helping you feel better. It's you know it's helping you in your journey. I mean it's unfortunate that um you know someone would would mock you or not make it easy for you when you're sick.

But um you're in that situation and I'm sure if you could not be in that situation it sounds like maybe you wouldn't be. So since you have to sounds like you have to be in that situation the only thing you can control you can't control them. So let them do them and but you can control how you respond and how you process what they are saying and doing. Um but you keep moving forward and do the healthy things for you. What are your thoughts Dr. White? I don't think there's a lot to add to that to be honest with you.

Okay. No. Well well done. Yeah. So Ashley, hope you feel better. Sorry that you're not feeling well. Hope you feel better. All right. So, Scott Dingan said, "How to overcome schizoeffect schizoeffective disorder and psychotic depression." All right. So, you're talking about um notice now these are diagnos well especially schizopeffective disorder and it usually has a subtype whether depressed type or bipolar type. So these are diagnosis and you can see that this requires professional treatment. So Scott, it's it can often be a combination of um correct diagnosis and then there can be a therapeutic element to the intervention and there can be a pharmacotherrapeutic you know element to the diagn uh to the intervention.

And there's also a very important role of medical assessment to make sure um other things have ruled out to make sure you have the correct diagnosis. Um but there's there's a role for medical intervention because you have the sunlight, you have the exercise, you have the good sleep hygiene, you have um good diet, you know. So I just want you to see the comprehensive nature that is involved in getting a great outcome and it's it's not just meds, it's not just therapy um necessarily. It is a combination of of all those things so that a person gets great care, right?

Um absolutely. But no, great question. Yeah, you want to know that um uh with schizopeeffective disorder, you're you're talking about this kind of combination of both um psychosis as well as a mood component. Um psychosis is a big word for a person is having trouble distinguishing between what's real and what's not real. And then with the mood component, you're saying there can be depression. Um, and so there's symptoms that are characterized by depression and then there's bipolar. Um, and so with there there's an there can be an elevation in the mood that more characterizes that bipolar component.

Um, and then with uh psychotic depression, I've already defined psychosis, but depression can progress to the point of severity to where it's actually associated with elements of psychosis. So a person a person's depression can get to the point where they're having trouble distinguishing between what's real and what's not real. So at that level of complexity um there need there can be so many interventions that are necessary up to and including whether it's um electroconvulsive shock therapy or deep brain stimulation or just a host of other things.

Um but again a lot of times when we think about mental illness we'll think about the light stuff you know that that maybe we are seeing or that we think of a lot of times we don't imagine the super severe mental illness um where life a person's life is at risk because um suicidal uh ideiation and self harm behavior do often accompany psychiatric illness as well. So um it's something that deserves a full complement of creative intervention professional. just want to add like when I have um when I have people come in and they have been diagnosed with the you know schizoeffective um I if they're not you know and it's not just but if they're in that family of disorders if they're not currently taking their meds it's like it's impossible and they're not regulated excuse me and they're not taking their meds it's it's impossible for me to do talk therapy or to do psychotherapy because they need it.

You know, I can do psychotherapy when they're on their meds and they're, you know, balancing out, but um it's it's very difficult to do and to be effective if they're not on their meds. Well, thank you for that context. How do you heal when your family has always used you as a scapegoat? The one that took the family trauma. It's like there was not affection in the mentally ill. Um having trouble with that question. Okay. Oh, I see what she Okay. Or I'm sorry, not Sherry. Um it's like there was not affected like she was the mentally ill one causing Oh.

Oh, okay. Okay. I see. I see. So, isn't like there's I I see. So I mean there are family dynamics. There are family dynamics where at times there's a person who's identified as a problem when in fact the whole family unit has a problem and they're scapegoating that person saying well fix her and everything will be okay when in fact that's like I I I see now better you know what you're um saying Sherry. Um, Sherry, uh, I think, um, I I think this is where it's so critical then that you kind of set your goals.

You get you set your goals for your life. Um, and then more than likely in the partnership with um, you know, a professional mental health practitioner, so whether it's a therapist or or what have you, you get clear now on Do I have an issue that needs support? And then what are my goals so that I understand what boundaries I need to set in order to achieve those goals. Um, and you can see why it is incredibly difficult to provide advice in that context because we don't know your situation. like your well-being might be dependent on this in the situation that you're and so you now have to figure out hey what are the boundaries I need to set what are the goals that I have and how do I work towards that and so customization is just something so important in effective mental intervention sure we might know the theories but applying them to your specific situation that's where that one-on-one you know or that customized is um strategizing is critical.

Um but but great great opportunity for us at least to mention that it's a very interesting dynamic where at times you know there's this false identifying of this is the problem when in fact even if there is a problem there there is a problem in the family system that might need to be addressed. It's definitely a family um it's in the family system and that's why a good mental health professional um and someone who will even do family therapy and and it would be amazing if the family would go to family therapy and really address this if there was wanting to be healing.

But it sounds like you're you're talking about healing just for yourself because I don't know if the family dynamics is even willing or open to even thinking okay it could be you know we need to look at this um as a family instead of just one person. Um but definitely getting mental health professional help for you um would be very good at this time. If your family never goes, that's too bad for them. But if you go, uh, you can definitely start the process of healing. But it's a great question, Sherry.

Thank you. All right, it looks like we have time for one more question. Is the love deeply emotional sad music? Oh, to love deeply emotional sad music. I didn't see the last part and it switched out. Okay. Is the love deeply to love is the love deeply emotional sad music a sign of depression? I would no it's not a sign of depression. Um some people are more melancholy. Um I can tell you my husband and I our music tastes are completely different as far as like you know I he he just loves different music than I do as far as it's more because he's more of a melancholic person.

So his music vibe is more matching to his personality type where mine is, you know, just more upbeat and flower. Like he likes things that let you make you think and meditate and, you know, he's always in deep thought about something. He likes his music to be on that level. It doesn't mean he's not depressed. He just likes emotional music. Man, he feels the music deeper than I do. Man after my own heart. Yeah, I like I like music that has the power to lift me from, you know, lift me from, let's say, even like sadness.

And yeah, my my wife Florence, like she likes uppidity music is what I call it. And they all know, they all know. No, no, skip skip this one. But they they know me. Um uh but yeah, it's I don't know. There's something about music that makes you think. So I I really can identify with him. When we first got married, I remember we'd be in the car and he'd play his music and I was like, "Uh, can you turn that?" And then after like several times that he's like, "You don't love my music." I'm like, "No, it makes me sad or makes me think about sad things."

You know what I mean? Like it's just different. Like it makes him happy. That's funny. My wife is such a smart eye. Like she's like watching right now and so she's like, "I can't imagine what you've written about me." like such a smart because of my comment from before. That's funny. Okay, we have time for one more. So, if there's another question, I don't know if there is another one. That might have been the last one. And that was from Sister Joanne. I didn't look who that was from, but no, Sister Joanne, it's not not a sign of depression.

Didn't know the name of that one. Okay, I don't think we we may not have another one. It ends right. That would be perfect timing. I don't know about you, but I had a lot of fun. I Yeah, this was this was amazing. Great idea. Didn't feel the stress. We didn't have a topic. It was just free. Great idea. Freestyle. Great idea. So, I think we'll do this more often. I mean, we're definitely going to have our topics, but we'll definitely be able to put this in maybe once a month. We'll see. I mean, we have to talk about it, but I said a lot of questions.

You guys had a lot of questions and it was a well-rounded um topics that came up. So, thank you. Thank you everyone. Please again share this on your social media because even if they weren't here live, they can still see it. It's going to be of course on YouTube, but uh put it on your Facebook and where just wherever on your Instagram. Please share, share, share because this is you guys had great questions and by God's grace we gave you know some some good answers. Always a pleasure, sister Tante.

Till next time. Yes, do you too. Okay, everyone. Have a good night. Bye. Bye.