Welcome mental health family members and viewers are welcome to mental health Monday. We're so happy that you guys are here with us. We're excited. Today is our grand finale for season three. So like, yay. We've had three seasons. We've been here for three three years. Isn't that wild? I guess time flies when you're having fun. That is wild. It is. We have some And for you, those of you who are just um starting watching Mental Health Monday, please while we're on this break during the summer, go back and watch some of our old programs because we have some good programs um for the the three years worth of programs.

So, you're not going to want of all top different topics on mental health. So, we are excited that we've been able to do that uh for three years. and just want to say officially welcome Dr. White to uh this evening's program. My pleasure. Thank you for having me. Yes. And again, welcome to all of you. Let's see. Welcome Clint. Clint, you're number one. Always number one, Clint. You're going out with a bang, Clint. Yes. Yeah. Please put in the chat where you guys are viewing from so we can say a special welcome to you.

And as you can see, tonight's topic is marriage and relationships. So we are excited to talk about that with you and also and you'll get more information towards the end. Um I am doing a marriage retreat a virtual marriage retreat. So it doesn't matter where you are in the world because you guys are you know we have people who wake up in South Africa and and watch mental health Mondays or it could be in Australia or wherever whatever time it is for for you at that time you can be uh part of a virtual marriage retreat.

And so we'll give you more information on about that towards the end. But right now we're going to be taking your questions and comments and and and all of that about marriage, relationships, even being single. We want to talk about it all. So we are here for it all. As they say, we are here for that. So definitely um get your questions ready. So I want to say welcome to Shan from Buford, Georgia. Welcome to Mental Health Monday. We are so happy that you are here with us today. Also, Mi Ford from Palaski, Tennessee.

Okay. Welcome. And Jason um from Walaw Wala. Thank you for being here. I can't see. Okay. Yeah. Agnes and Jean. I see Agnes Jean. Welcome, Agnes Jean. Yes. And then I can't quite see. I know it says Alamita, but I can't see the name because it has MP MPG from Alamita, California. From Alamita from from the Bay. Oh, is that from the bay? Okay. Alama's near uh near Oakland and Fremont and um yeah, I have spent some time there. Definitely Alamita, beautiful Bay Area. So, we are just happy to have all of you, all of you here uh with us this evening.

Um, have to say Dr. White, I'm sure when we talk about addiction, you probably feel like that's one of my favorite topics because that's what you specialize in, right? When we talk about marriage and relationships, I'm like, h, I'm excited because that's what I specialize in. Um but always happy to um we both love to share um advice that's going to make a marriage happier which is going to um make if a marriage is happier the children are happier and if the children are happier and people other family members are happier you know it's just a better um they could that can help to create better human beings for society you know to have healthy a coming from a healthy home or healing a making a home healthy if it's not healthy.

So, absolutely, we love to talk about these things. So, yeah, we're looking forward to your questions. And if they don't put them in the chat, I'll get the questions going because I will Oh, yeah. I will definitely uh tap your um expertise. Yes. All right. So, well, we might as well start because when we start, then they start to warm up. So, we're we're going to start. We're going to take that time. We're going to get your guys' um marriage questions. Um, we're going to help populate them by We're going to start.

So, you go ahead and start, Dr. White. Okay. You have a number of favorite things that you like to remind us of. Um, for example, you remind us to get a PhD in your spouse, like really learn them. Um, along the lines of that, what would you say is another thing that you love to remind couples about because you see them forget it so often? Oh my goodness. H on the spot question. Okay. The most besides getting a PhD in your spouse, what do I love to remind them the most? There's so many things. Um, okay.

This is one. I don't know if it's the most, but it's one. um that you're on the same team. That you're on the same team because you know when you start bickering and fighting, you've drawn the line and it's like I'm going to use a basketball analogy because you guys know I love basketball. So it's like you're on the war, you're the Warriors, you're the Steph Curry and they're the LeBron James. Like you're battling like you're going to like you're trying to beat your your your spouse or you know try to win and that that's not that's not the goal.

That shouldn't be the goal. You're on the same team. You don't have to. They're not your um adversary. They're your lover, your friend. And so, you don't have to, you can speak to them with even when you disagree, you can speak to them with kindness and respect. Because when you think about when uh teammates are on the on the floor, on the field playing, like even if they're saying, "Hey, man, do this better." Or, "Hey, I'm open over here or whatever." They're not belittling them. They're not calling them stupid.

they're not, you know, they're treating them with respect and just, you know, letting them know like, oh, I think you can do it like this better or whatever. So, it's like treating your spouse like you are on the same team and they're not the opposition. Yeah, that's that's powerful. Um, I was listening to Kevin Liry comment on what causes a lot of relationships to fall apart. For those of you who don't know, he's a Shark Tank judge and very, very fiscally minded. and he mentioned that he was surprised to learn the role finances played in causing relationships to decline.

And with what you just said, when there's a fight over the resources, right, and each one is trying to get the resources to their side rather than a collaborative attitude and saying, "No, we're on the same team, right? Like, let's get the resources to the places that will move forward the agenda of the team, right?" You can see how that other, you know, that that mindset of collaboration supports the relationships and then finances don't rip the relationship apart. Right. Right. Yeah. It's huge.

It's huge. We have a question. Yeah. Let's go for it. What are Oh, okay. What are some suggestions for married couples as it relates to postpartum depression? I'll let you take a stab and then I'll Sure. So with postpartum depression, we are talking about the depression that can be associated with pregnancy and it's something that we're recognizing more and more. Uh when you think about the birth process, it and it's really amazing that a woman's body is designed such that it can actually give birth.

And then you start realizing, man, what must be the chemicals? What must be the hormones and how must they shift as a person goes from not having a baby, having a baby to then giving birth to that baby. Can you imagine the hormonal shifts that have to take place, right? And then the power of these hormones is that they impact the mind and thinking. Um, so you can see then how easy it is for a person then to experience a a reduction in their mood. Um, as you think about decreased energy, sometimes the birth outcome might not have been what the person wanted for whatever reason.

Um, sometimes there isn't as much support as they would want um or need. and and all of these things can contribute to the postpartum experience. Well, here's where I will say I could have done a better job with my wife's postpartum period. I could have done a better job. Mhm. Um I I believe I was in med school at the time, so I definitely had something that was consuming my attention, but it was in hindsight that I really came to understand how energy consuming it is, how defeating it is, how how interesting choice of words, but how unfulfilled it can feel being overwhelmed by a new child.

It's weird. It's weird because like obviously you're fulfilled but you're so set up to feel defeated, right? Because new mom but less energy and sometimes the support's just not there, right? So my personal advice to the guy um would be do everything possible to go beyond what you might think is reasonable. Um do everything possible to get into the experience and learn about what is involved, you know, in a woman giving birth to a child. uh because there are not a lot of settings that really sensitize us to that woman's experience.

There there just aren't. And when we don't understand, we can then minimize and miss opportunities to be on that person's cutting edge. Cutting edge meaning giving exactly what's needed at the time that it's needed. And that's a cool thing when you can do it. Absolutely. I agree with everything that you said. U really getting a PhD like in the process of what the process is of giving birth and what your wife is going through. Exactly what you said. Um and a lot of times it is the hormones but it's also the lack of sleep mixed with the the hormones changing.

I can remember um just after like maybe two or three days after giving well maybe a week after giving birth just like standing like getting ready to take a shower but just feeling so like a different type of depression. I don't believe I was fully like diagnosed postpartum, but I could feel because of the lack of sleep and the hormones changing like, okay, this this is this is nothing. I've never felt this before. Um, so all of that is happening. Um, and it really just reminds me that um, you know, giving birth really was meant to be in a marriage, in a committed relationship, because you shouldn't, a woman shouldn't be going through that alone.

She needs all the help that she can get at that time. Um because yes, probably both are not getting sleep, but the mom, if she's breastfeeding, she's also providing nutrition uh for this baby. And so there's just her energy is just like really, you know, it's just not the best. And so I agree with you that the husband has has to really step up and do his part to assist the mom in every every area. things that um not not to expect all the things that you um expected before before she gave birth to the baby.

Um being very um just gentle with your wife and just and supportive so your tone is good. I mean the things that you should be doing anyways, but even like up that even more um so that she's just she's already dealing with the stress of being a a new mom to this baby. So trying to make everything else her load as light as possible um especially um if she's in a postpartum well even if she's not in a postpartum depression but when she's there but to the w to the to the wife um or the the mother um I would say definitely work talk to your doctor about what you're going through and what you're feeling to just see if there you know if you're breastfeeding you know medication may not be the best option but you're definitely wanting to talk to your doctor, mental health professional if you're feeling um thoughts of just of course self harm or harm to the baby and all of those type of things because postpartum depression can get to that point.

Yeah. And so you you hop on that kind of stuff um sort of emerently like you you really want to make sure you get yourself into professional attention if you're having thoughts of death, dying, harming yourself or harming someone else. Those are things that really need, you know, immediate attention. you don't just you don't you don't ignore that kind of stuff. Um but uh but it's it's a profound opportunity. It's a profound opportunity to be there for your spouse. It's a profound opportunity. And if you nail it, man, uh yeah, you're not forgotten.

Right. Because I'll tell you, when you haven't, that's not forgotten either. Right. Right. Right. Right. All right. Let's see. What would you suggest is the best way to keep the heart rate down, inner calm when a person avoids communicating about uncomfortable conversations? I I would like to answer that and Dr. White, you could do a follow-up as well. Um, so my favorite thing that I like to teach individuals, definitely couples, uh, when you're in a in a heated situ heated conversation or, you know, um, you definitely want to activate your vag nerve.

Then your vagus nerve is the uh longest nerve um that runs through the the central nervous system and I think the body. Correct me if I'm not wrong about that. I think it's the largest largest nerve that runs through the body, but definitely through the central nervous system. And so the vagus nerve when it's activated can and that that brings your heart rate down um and keep and helps you to just calm down. It's just it's just amazing what it can do. And so you can do that through breathing. I like to teach people to do the four, seven, nine.

So, take a deep breath for four counts, hold it for seven counts, and blow it, you know, blow it out of your mouth for nine counts as if you're trying to empty all your all the air in your lungs. And I like I like for people to do it two or three times just to practice that so when a situation does happen, they're kind of uh more prepared to go in that direction. But definitely do the breathing and that opens up when you slow when you do activate the vagus nerve it opens up your prefrontal cortex.

This is the adult part of your brain. So you're going to respond like an adult when you do that because when you don't do that and you're like have the amygdala firing off and you're afraid and you're scared and you're and then other parts of your brain that are just your emotions are just mad and angry. You're not going to respond like an adult. you're going to respond like a child and you'll do stu say stupid things, do stupid things that you're probably going to regret later and have to apologize for.

So, it's much better to just breathe 479. There's different breathing techniques. Um, and then put yourself on a timeout, a little adult timeout, then respond. Wow. Wow. That was nice. That was really really powerful because you're talking about a tool where it's if you take a good therapeutic breath, it's almost hard to stay like elevated, you know, right? You do this right. [Music] It works. I mean, it it's just amazing. Now, the thing I'll add to that, um, the thing I'll add to that since you went the physiological route and she stole my answer.

Um, I want to go the other route. I'm gonna go the other route and, um, I'll talk about the the spiritual. Okay. Um, since a lot of our audience is Christian, I'm I'm comfortable, you know, mentioning this. Um, we as Christians believe that there's God and we believe there's Satan. and we feel like Satan is active in this world causing turmoil. One of the things that helps keep me calm in arguments is remembering that Satan would love to escalate your argument. He would love to do that. And so there are thoughts that will come to you that often are not helpful.

So what I talk about is AM frequency versus FM frequency. M AM frequency is when God is trying to talk to you. All right. Yeah. And the the importance of AM frequency is it really underscores the importance of your devotional life because when you get up early in the morning and you do your devotion, it attunes you to AM frequency. What is God saying? Yeah. You know, I I I know you're upset with her, but remember, she does nice things. Um I I I know he's not at his best right now, but he's the father of your children and you know he'll come around like am frequency.

Now what's on the same you're on the same team. We're we're on the same team ultimately you know um other things like and we have a big function tomorrow. It would help if we weren't fighting right now. What's FM frequency? FM frequency. There he goes again. You know there he goes again. I I don't know why I put up with this. This is FM frequency. Um uh you know, I've had it. You know, I've had it. You can barely even hear what the person's saying. You know, that's the dumbest statement I've ever heard in my life.

These are the thoughts whether you're saying it or not. But now, let's let's just pause for a second. How does that make you feel? Dumbest statement in the world. And he's always these these these statements that at their core are rich with contempt, right? You know, it certainly isn't going to help your heart rate or your your your your autonomic tone. It's not going to help. But when you can shift perspective tone, yeah, it's it's not going to help. When you can shift your perspective, when you can say, "I'm not going to be manipulated.

I'm going to I'm going to shift. I'm going to turn from FM and I'm actually going to turn to AM frequency. God, what are you saying to me in this moment? Right? Um, that's what can lead you to remain solutionoriented rather than letting your ego get insulted, you can keep your eyes on solution and making sure that you're actually hearing one another, right? Awesome. Awesome answer. I love that. Um, let's see. Is it okay for a young woman in in a marriage to take their mother's advice to have a secret account without her husband knowing?

And what are the dangers of doing this, if any? Mercy. I'll just I'll say something about this first. Um well, we we don't know the ins and outs of that situation, why the mother is saying that. I mean, I would say normally I would say absolutely not. that you know to do something like that but not knowing that specific situation and can't say that about that specific situation. So I'm just speaking in general um that transparency that's something I tell every marriage transparency is crucial. you're you're being honest and you're not keeping a secret on you're not keeping secrets from your spouse.

Like they need to and I think I've said this on here before, they need to know uh especially about money. Especially about money. So, because this is dealing with a a bank account, that just I don't know sets off alarms for me that something else is definitely going on. It's not that's not a good thing. Um if you guys can couples can have two separate bank accounts for sure but you need to know that's what you're doing that needs to be discussed. You don't have like a private account like the two shall be one.

How can you become one and there are secrets in the marriage. So generally that's absolutely a no. I that advice from the mom I would say would be wrong. But not knowing this situation um I couldn't speak of that specific situation. I I loved your caution because I was going to launch in and then your your caution was like, "Wait a second." Because I love your caution because when we're talking about marriage, we're talking about from newlyweds, goooo gaga, you know, in love one all the way to almost divorced but married on paper.

And so that's why we can't speak to this situation. Who knows? May maybe there's even abuse in the relationship. I was going to say if it's an abusive situation, then you might be saving up. you might be saying to escape and you're storing that away. Well, that would make sense. It varies. That said, I want to I want to build on what you just said. Um truth. Yeah. The the the foundation of relationship is truth. And I talk about like two dimensions of truth. The first dimension is honesty. Now honesty is delivering the truth if asked the right question.

Yeah, that's honesty. But the second dimension of truthfulness is transparency. What you just mentioned, transparency where your delivery of the truth is independent of the right question. It's independent of even a question. You're truthful. When when when your lover sees you, they can see through you, right? You're transparent. Um, now I'm not talking about cruel truth. I'm not talking about that. But I'm talking about alignment to where you don't have to hide. Um, to me, that's the foundation of intimacy is the ability to really and truly deliver truth.

Mhm. So when we have to hide and when we have to bend the truth and stuff like that, it's like I feel like that's a cancer to intimacy to the foundation of intimacy. Yeah, there's definitely there's definitely something much deeper going on underneath um something like that. There's a you know there's something much deeper much deeper. But again, not knowing that situation specifically, I think those were the best answers we could give on that one. Exactly. You know, as you guys are thinking of more questions, I just want to say and maybe Amry, you could put up the um the website.

Uh there is a virtual marriage retreat happening this weekend, Hearts on Fire. Uh virtual marriage retreat, and I am hosting that. And um you'll be able to not only ask these type well you will be able to ask these type of questions but you're going to be learning so much um in some of the and definitely in some of the areas that we're we're talking about right now. And um it's eight hours worth of training. Eight hours worth of training. And I have to say that it's you're going to get a lot. You're going to get a lot.

There's this is the third one couples have been blessed. they have um just implemented some of these principles into their marriage and I don't get like monthly reports from the first one was like a year and a half ago but I know that many of them said that they are doing very well and adding the tips and the using the tools that they learned um in the hearts on fire virtual marriage retreat. So if you and your spouse are are interested in that uh definitely can give your marriage a boost. Um, I used the analogy I think in one of the the advertisements like if your even if your marriage is like just an old car, like it's still a good running old car, but it needs some some maintenance and work because a old car always needs some maintenance, uh, this is for you.

If your marriage is like uh a newer car, but it's breaking down all the time, this retreat is for you. Um, and and I'm trying to think of another analogy because I didn't think about that part, but if your if your if your if your marriage is like a a car that's not too old, not brand new, but right in the middle, um, and you're still needing to learn better communication and all those type of things, this retreat is for you. So, you can just go to that website and register for this virtual retreat.

Go ahead, Dr. White. Will it be interactive? Oh, yeah. It's live. It's live. So, they get to ask they get to ask questions. Um, and yeah, and I and I answer them. That's phenomenal. So, I present What happens is I present the information and then we give this big bulk of time for questions. That's awesome. So, that way it's not I can get through all of the information and not be interrupted and that kind of thing. But, well, it's it's funny because I think we hear about things like this. We hear about offers like this and we can sometimes entertain a false sense of security like I don't need that right and the the result of that is we do that enough to where the marriage gets to a condition right where when you're finally interested it's it's so depleted it's so emaciated you know that because you forfeited opportunities over and over and over again to like fine-tune it and get some of these tools, right?

That can be so powerful and so impactful. Yes, we we talked about that this week too, like that I I was sharing with you that, you know, a lot of times people could get a they could get some maintenance, some tuneup and and and be okay, right? But then they they normally reach out to me, a licensed marriage and family therapist, when like the house is on fire or, you know, they're going that their marriage is in the in the ER and then they're like, "Can you fix this? Well, we can work on some things, but it's, you know, it's a much it's a much um it's much harder."

So, nu-ginningscounseling.com. Yes. New Beginnings Counseling. Yes. So, so and if if for any reason you can't use it, um you might have a friend that you can refer and say, "Hey, you know what? You should really make use of this." All right. Oh, yeah. For sure. And if you know young couples newly married, definitely send it their way because I man the things I taught the things I've learned as a marriage and family therapist if I would have known this known these things like in the first year first five years okay be honest first 10 years of marriage it would it would have been so much easier.

Um, so definitely share with the newlyweds, the singles. And the reason why I say the singles, and then I know we have more questions, but for the singles, it's important because this is the time for you to be pouring into yourself to learn um these things now. Like you're so that you're not just stumbling into marriage when that happens, but you already have um some tools and knowledge going into it. I wish I would have had that when I was a single. Mercy. Forget newlywed. I wish I would have known this when I was single.

Well, well, what I mean, see what betrays it is it's funny when you think about it, but it's so serious at the same time. Like when think about when you first got into the relationship, right? There's an experience I call virgin love, right? Where everything is new. You know, you don't you can imagine yelling at the person. You know, you're so proper in front of each other. But aside from that, there's this real love, right? And it just gets shattered by these like silly arguments or just the nature of life.

And when you're single and you have the wisdom to pursue an offer like this, it positions you to avoid some of those silly mistakes and forfeit that really awesome period. in your relationship. Yes. Oh, absolutely. I wish I would have had it. I really And then you know people Anyway, we can talk about that forever. Let's take your question. Yay. Anyway, I think there was a question up there. I think Amar had it. Yeah. All right. Could feelings of possible abandonment make someone feel that way? And what way I wonder was she talking about cuz I'm sure that was in reference to a statement.

Um I don't I wonder if it was in reference to whether they should get a secret account. But um Cassie maybe you could clarify for us feelings of it in response to what? Excuse me. And then um let's see. Yeah. So then she said, "PS, my statement question was in reference to the mother suggesting the bank account secrecy, which I don't agree with either." All right. Well, Cassie, why don't you tell us what you really think? I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm joking. No. Um, feelings of abandonment. Maybe you could talk to us a little bit about um abandonment and and in the context of attachment disorder.

Um, okay. Okay, we'll take it. Okay. So, um so there's sec there's four different attachment styles. And so I mean when you have a sec when a when a baby at infancy um has secure attachments because the mother and or the father were so loving and do and there was hugs and warmth and security and people grow up with secure attachments. And when someone is born and there's not that uh loving and doing and I'm going to hugs again and because that makes babies feel secure like oh I'm safe and they can feel the the love and the cooing and the kisses and I don't I don't know how they're not understanding it but they're their mind is um translating it into security and insecurity.

So when that's not there, they have uh insecure um attachments which uh they will have fear of abandonment and being abandoned like just not feeling um you know basically not feeling wanted or just that fear. And so, um, going back to this question, if if if someone if has an attachment style that, uh, is always afraid that somebody's going to leave them, then it's possible that even though they're married and in a committed relationship, they still have that fear because they've never been to a mental health professional to deal with it.

So, they could always feel like, well, I better put this to the side just in case. Uh, but that just sets off alarms like I said like that individual therapy um to deal with that because they have they're not dealing with the issues that need to be dealt with because it's not just showing up in their marriage. It's it's showing up in probably all the different spaces of their life because that that attachment style goes with them wherever they go. That's who they are. Wow. I hope you got I hope you guys are taking notes because that was that was a masterclass response right there.

All right, Andre is asking, "Marriage counseling is good and all, but sometimes it is some it's something mainly oriented to women. How can how can men have desire to take part in counseling without their spouse's suggestion?" Um, I heard that laugh. Can I answer this one? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Go for You know, it's funny that you said that, Andre, because um I was thinking about this because I was honestly I'm thinking about the retreat and I was thinking about um different little um for the advertisement, little things I can can use to like really pull them in.

And I'll be honest with you, let me tell you, of course, I've had the men there that have been drugged there by their wife. Trust me, they're just like, "My wife said we had to be here and you could see it all over their face and their body language is she's making me come or whatever. Do you know that I can and I'm no pride on myself. It's all glory to God. Okay. But I can win them over. I like to say fair by the end of that first session they are excited to come back and by the end of that first session well by the next session the wife is like yeah he was like we got to go to our we have to go to our appointment.

Don't forget our appointment. We have to go. we have to go because a lot of times the way that I win them over is that I make sure he feels heard and I will make sure since he was the one that was being drugged there, I will try to connect with him the most cuz she's already won. Like she's already she's already in it. So, is I don't I'm not that I'm not listening to the wife, but I'm really trying to and when he when he sees that I'm paying attention, even validating him on some things that he's never felt validated about, he literally sometimes they're looking down and then they I can they look up in my eyes and they're like, "She's listening to me."

Like, they're like shocked. And by that time, I already know, well, I I won. I got them. He's he's because you can see it like all over their face. like and yeah, so that's what that's what I do. So you want you want to and finding a a therapist is just like shopping for anything else, right? Meaning like you got you have to find someone that works that you feel heard that I'm definitely make sure and I think all good therapists and I'm not saying I'm the only one by any means. All good therapists are going to especially dealing with couples, you have to seem balanced.

you can't seem like you're on the wife's side because they can they kind of think especially a female therapist they're just going to be like oh you're just going to side with my wife you're going to think like her. So I have to be very I mean when the wife is right I'm not going to say I'm not going to make it pretend like she's wrong but I have to be very very balanced. So I'm saying all that to say you have to look for a a a couple's therapist that you feel comfortable with and that you feel both of you are feeling heard and listened to by that therapist.

Go ahead. Oh, I mean everything you said was right on point. Um, for me, I I usually work it out with the woman. Hey, I know you said that your spouse is hesitant. So, just know that we're going to kind of tilt things towards them. Kind of make sure he feels heard. All everything that you said, but I kind of get her in on it so that she doesn't feel like I'm just ganging up on her. Right. Um, and then the other piece, Andre, is Tante, yet again, you said it. A lot of times the therapeutic setting can be somewhat hostile towards men.

I said it. Okay. Like it can be sometimes therapists bring their own issues into it, but go ahead. Oh, yeah. Like like you Yeah. Go. You are you are by no means the majority of the situation. It's like you you have detected something and I'm glad you're tuning into it and I think as a result of that you're you're providing great care because you're giving men a space to feel heard and you're not just beating them up in the therapeutic setting. And obviously when you build relationship with a person, they're ready to hear when you hold them accountable as well, right?

But it's like but at least you heard me. Um, and sometimes in the therapeutic setting as men just don't feel heard. Yeah. Um, so you you you run up against what feels like a bias against your perspective and that doesn't help at all. So So I just wanted to validate that. Um, Andre, that you you you want a therapist that takes the time to hear you. Um, and and especially if men actually take the time to show up. Like, so I have some couples that will come on their lunch break, right? Or it's his lunch break, not always her lunch break.

And I mean, they're willing to stop in the middle of the day and come to to couples therapy. Like, yeah, you're I'm not I don't want you to feel like this is your beat up time. And honestly, it's not always the man's fault anyways. I mean, sometimes Yeah. Well, anyways. All right. So verse and vision said is there a spirit of loneliness or a spirit of depression or is it mental, emotional, neurological or physical in the brain? Yes. Verse. Next question. I'm just I'm just playing. Well, because it's kind of all those things.

Um as a Christian, I definitely believe in a spiritual realm. Right. Right. Right. But at the same time uh verse there is a biological realm. Um how we're presenting and how we're feeling right now there's a chemical contribution to that and it's a it's a powerful idea when you think about it that the way I'm feeling right now there is a chemical influence going on in my mind right now. There are hormones that are in play right now that dictate how energetic I feel or how non-energetic I feel, how anxious I feel versus how calm I feel.

That's all chemically driven. Um, so there's a spiritual interplay, there's a um biological interplay, but then there's also my perspective. If my perspective right now is, "Oh my goodness, there's hundreds of people watching me and it's going to be thousands later and man, that's so scary and they're going to notice everything bad about me." Like, what would be my experience at that point? If I if I adopt that perspective, this would not be enjoyable at all. I would be tense. I'd be stressed. I'd be all this other kind of stuff, you know?

Um, so yeah, that's where there's an emotional contribution. Um so that's why I in a very cheeky fashion said yes verse because all of these various things do make a contribution. Now the mistake that we can make sometimes is overemphasizing the spiritual and minimizing the the science or we can go to this extreme as well and we can overemphasize the science and minimize the spiritual. We try to avoid either of those traps and we we acknowledge the role of the spiritual and the physical. Right. Right.

No, great question. Great answer. Good question and good answer. Thank you, Deborah. Final question. Should there be an age for marriage? For example, if one marries too young, the marriage could be at a disadvantage. And if a person's marriage's too old, they're already set in their ways. You're going to take the first crack at that one. I can already I can already see the Well, Deborah, yeah, Deborah, you're definitely on to something. But I heard um Oh, man. I don't remember her name, actually.

But I She was a um she's a psychologist. I don't remember her name. However, um I heard her presentations twice. You would think I'd remember her name, but this was years ago. So, uh, she shared just that she recommends, I'm I'm quoting her, Dr. So and So, because I can't remember her name, but she recommends, uh, to people to wait until they're at least 24 years old. Why does she say that, you may ask? But according, um, to the science, that the chromosomes, our chromosomes are they merge closer together.

like this is fully she says fully developed in our prefrontal cortex and so we're making better decisions now even with me saying what she said that depends right I mean I'm sure that's actually happening but everybody's life journey and story is different so if there was trauma then that maturity level is not going to be where it should be at 24 that's why we say oh somebody might be 24 but they're acting like they're 16 because there was trauma you know whatever trauma happened to them whatever so if everything is I don't want to say perfect because nobody's life is ever perfect but if people are emotionally healthy and stable and there weren't these huge traumatic events happening to them typically according to this study the chromosomes have formed um and so you're they're fully formed at 24 and so uh you're more mature uh you're wiser um all of these things and so you guys can look for the study try to find it out.

I should be able to quote the study if I'm saying it, but I can't quote it right now. But that's the principle. And so there could be definitely some wisdom in that. Is that like a perfect rule where it's like if maybe God is calling two people at 21, 22 years old to get married? Can't say like, oh, it's wrong. can't I mean it's going to be it's going to be up to the individuals you know but people are literally normally more mature maybe mid20s than they were when they were 20 or 21 or 19 or 18 on the second part of your question.

It's true. Definitely. When you're lived a single life for 50 years and then you're bringing somebody new into the scene, that's definitely going to be a major shakeup versus when you marry young and you haven't really established your routine in life and you're kind of finishing growing up and establishing together. That could be easier on that end. And then on other spaces, it's can be harder and stressful because maybe you haven't built your financial u space um in the place where you need it to be.

And so you're stressed in that. So there's no wrong or right. You can marry young if that's the if that's I'm going to say as a Christian if that's what God is calling for both of your lives. And you can marry old if that's what God is calling for your life and it be okay. Um but definitely I would say it can be harder for different reasons on both sides of that. Go ahead. You can take you can answer that. All right. Brilliant response. I hope you guys were taking notes. Um this is what I have to add to that.

Uh the essence of being prepared to marriage or marry is you're able to make a contribution um spiritual contribution contribution for resources. I remember going into marriage I was about 24 25 at the time and chromosomes were formed right. Well, my mindset wouldn't testify to that because my mindset was, hey, what can I get out of this, you know, and I think maybe I'm a maybe I'm being a little unfair to myself because of course I don't think I was a a complete rascal. Um, I I I went in wanting to be good, but I I think at earlier on I was more focused on what I could get out of it, and I think as I matured, I more started getting excited about what I could contribute.

And you see people asking themselves, "Hey man, am I getting am I ready to to be married? What are you prepared to deliver? What are you positioned to deliver right now?" And if you're not positioned to deliver anything, maybe this could wait till you actually um deliver something. So advantages I see for waiting a little later is brain development. You know, like the the brain is not fully formed, right? um until you're about 25. You know that you said like you said the prefrontal cortex so on and so forth, right?

Here's the thing to remember, folk rate. Yeah. 50%. So when when something fails at such a high level, does it make sense to take precautions? Yeah. We keep harping on maturity, right? And I'm going to drill this down to emotional intelligence. Okay. So there's a principle called emotional intelligence, EQ. The hallmark, one of the hallmark foundational things in emotional intelligence is self-awareness. Self-awareness. And one of the problems that can occur when you go into marriage and when you go into marriage too quickly or too early is you're not self-aware.

Right? And when you're not self-aware, you're not set up for the second pillar of emotional intelligence, which is self-management. And when you're not set up for self-management, you're also not set up for awareness of others. Third pillar. And when you're not aware of others, you can't manage others. So when you give yourself time to really become aware of who you are, what you're passionate about, you reduce the risk of starting a relationship prematurely and then waking up one day and be like, I don't like this.

I thought I did, but the truth is I didn't really know myself, right? you know, um, and that can be problematic. So, you can wake up after choosing perfectly and still feel that way because marriage is not just about I like you and I'm drawn to you. It's on the basis of commitment. I'm I'm committed to you, which means I'm not just relying on how I feel. But all that said, it helps to be self-aware. And so that's where maturity can help. Now, the downside to waiting too long, is the most competitive options kind of get taken quickly and earlier on.

So now when you decide, okay, well, now I'm ready. Well, now there might be less options. Um, especially if you wait too long. So th those are some of the downsides. Um, and the other piece is I don't know that you're ever completely ready. Um, the key thing is you've got to be ready to grow, right? Ready to be kind, ready to be generous, and and ready to recognize opportunities for your own personal growth. If you're not mature enough to be ready to be ready to grow and learn, then you're not ready for marriage.

Because you're right, none of us are ready ready completely. Um you're gonna you're still going to have to grow. It's still a learning curve. You just have to be willing like just like when you sign up for school like you know, okay, this is what I want to do. I'm passionate about this. This is what I'm going to school for. But you're still learning. You're still growing. Um and that's that's what marriage is like. Definitely. All right. Okay. Hey, what you got? Sunshine said, "The issues with my in-laws coupled with my husband's silence is creating significant marital anxiety.

We were weighing whether to disengage from family events. What's the best path? What's the best path forward for us? Uh, you guys need Atante's marriage retreat this Sabbath. Uh, show up so that you can get a more customtailored response. that that's what I would recommend. No, but yeah, in in addition to that, well, I mean, I'm I'm saying sometimes I can be cheeky, guys. You got to forgive me, but this is just my personality. Um, this this this deserves a customtailored response. This deserves like unpacking, hey, this is what's going on and this is what's happening.

And then you could get something more, you know, customized. Um then Sunshine further said, "We attempted to talk things through, but they gaslight and pull other members against us. That's why my husband has gone silent." I'm so sorry to hear because I can I can I can hear and feel the pain in that question. Um what what are your thoughts, Sister T? Well, I I'm trying to figure out gone silent with with Sunshine or gone silent with the family. I I would want to know that, but I'm a Assuming given our current anxiety around family interactions, how can we discern if disengaging is a healthy boundary to our mental and marriage or if there's a way to re-engage with healthier dynamics?

Well, I would say for this part of the the question definitely um you have to make that decision. I mean, but what you've shared, you definitely have um if it's if it's causing mental stress for you and your husband and causing issues in your marriage and you've tried to, you know, communicate and have a mature, spiritual, loving conversation with the family and they are choosing not to change, then you can definitely make a decision and set a boundary of where you're going to where and when you are going to spend time with these individuals.

if you're going to continue to spend time with them at all. Meaning, um, because I like to tell people, I tell this to parents, uh, other family members, you can lose the parent card and the family card in the way that you, uh, treat and respect other family members or friends and and those type of things. Like, you can't just treat people horribly and think like, oh, your family, I I have to stay here with you. No, actually, you don't. Um, but that has to be a decision that you that you uh that you make and that your husband makes.

Um, and if you've spoken to them and they're still not changing, then that definitely sounds like you're in a space where you have to to make a decision on how you're going to to move forward. But you have, this is not telling you what to do. This is just telling you that you have um from what you're sharing sounds like all the right to make that decision if that's what you decide to do. If that if you decide that's what's going to be healthy for you, healthier for you as an individual. Um and yeah, you don't have to do that.

I want to give an example here. I think it's a it's this is this is a one of the most popular people probably in the world, but and I'm going to use Michelle Obama as an example. As you know, if you guys followed the inauguration of of Donald Trump, this last one, she wasn't present. And people were just thinking like, "Wait, you're the president's you're the ex-president's wife. You're supposed to be here." Months later, she came out and said, cuz everybody's was speculating, oh, they're having marriage problems.

All they were just speculating all over the place, which is just speculation. And what she was what she said is like she knew that she had never really put boundaries down for herself when she was in the public eye because that's when all that uh the expectations were for her, you know, because she was the first lady. She had to do this this and that. Now she's raised her kids. Her husband's no longer uh the president. That inauguration is not somewhere she wanted to be. That that wasn't going to be good for her her mental health.

So, she decided she put down a boundary and decided I'm not going to be there, which was perfectly fine, right? Because she's not in a public servant or in public life and not, you know, the, you know, she's just not in that position. She doesn't have to be there. The point of it is is to highlight when you have to make decisions that maybe other people won't agree with and they're kind of hard at times, but you have to do the best thing for you. And so that's the example that I'm why I'm bringing this up because she made the best decision that was for her mental health.

She couldn't attend and sometimes we have to make hard decisions and she's also in therapy so she she worked that out with her therapist before she made that decision. But wow. Anyway, so sometimes we have to do that. Well, I I love your point that just because you're blood doesn't mean you're entitled to be toxic, right? and and that I must be subject to your toxicity. I I love that point, right? Um I love that point because uh poison is poison. It doesn't matter who's administering it. It's still poison.

And it's it doesn't even matter that they're doing it accidentally. You'll still die, right? So that's why you gonna hop in. Well, I was just gonna say because Sunshine answered a little more. She said he her husband has gone silent with his family. Well, it sounds like your husband's already made the decision, right? And so that's why we're just talking about general principles rather than speaking to that situation because the situation is so nuanced. So, I'm joking, but I'm serious at the same time.

Like, take advantage of this offer where maybe now you could you would you you would have time to unpack it and and clarify and and then maybe get a more meaningful response from, you know, Sister Tante. Um but whatever the case, yeah, I I I definitely agree with you that we have to set the boundaries that are in the best interest of the family firm. I like to think of the marital relationship as a as a as a firm. I I think of a family as a firm. And a firm has an agenda. It has a vision. It has a mission.

It has goals and it is entitled to set boundaries that support the forward movement of the firm and be guided by that. Yes. Well said. All right. Well, sunshine, I look forward to seeing you there. Oh, that'd be phenomenal. She said she I look forward to seeing you and your husband there. Look forward to that. Oh, that's phenomenal. That's awesome, Sunshine. Congrats. Yes. Now verse said if a marriage is lifelong learning experience why is it that many people wait to have the assurance that everything will be perfect before entering marriage that's funny verse I wish people were waiting because I don't see people waiting I see people actually being premature and I'm again I'm joking verse but I wish more people were having the mindset of I'd like to be more prepared Because what I'm observing and maybe my my view is biased.

I'm seeing people jumping into this thing with very little preparation. Right. I absolutely agree. With very little meaningful training um so that you just the fundamentals of communicating. How do you communicate when you're angry? Okay. Right. How do you communicate when you're infuriated? What do you do when you're infuriated? Mhm. Um, and how do you set boundaries and feel good about it? Like these are like just some fundamental basic tools that nobody teaches, right? You know, what is what is the major thing you can do for a man?

Okay, that only a spouse can do. What is what is that major thing? And then the flip question, what can you do for your spouse? What can what can a man do for his woman that would just really knock it out the park. Um these are not things that are discussed. They're not. And and you see people rushing into this super highstake relationship with minimal training and you wonder why it's 50% failure rate. Yes, it is. And it's so sad. And those numbers are the ex those are just the numbers. Whether Christians or non-Christians, it's the same numbers.

And we've been saying 50% for a while. It's actually higher than that. Those were the old numbers. It's higher than that. And it's it's really sad. But um and but here's the encouraging part. Yes. There are subpopuls there's subops where the failure rate is really low. There are subops. So, for example, when you've taken the time to be compatible, when you've taken the time to get some of these tools, when there there are subops that their their rate is pretty pretty low in terms of the failure rate, right?

And so, the appeal, the recommendation is get into those subops. Yes. Get some of those tools. Um, learn that partner. Get that time to learn the partner. um so that you build something that lasts. Like Dr. Gottman would say, you can be you can be part of the masters. The masters are the marriages that make it. You don't have to be the disasters. But yeah, definitely get into that to that sub population. So yes, we are actually all out of time, guys. When we're talking about when we're just taking your questions and answering them, it's so much fun, but it goes by so fast.

Uh yes, spread the word, share on your social media. And I just want to let you guys know going to join Sunshine and myself at the retreat and her we're going to be there. But want to let you guys know about the virtual marriage retreat that's happening this weekend. It starts on Friday evening, uh, 700 p.m. Central time, and then it will be at 6:00 p.m. on on on Saturday, um, central time. And then on Sunday, it's at 12:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. Central time. And all all the sessions are two hours each.

So, it's eight hours of training for your marriage. Eight hours of training. I'll be honest, you go, you'll see on the website, the cost is really for eight hours of training, you're getting that for like the price of one uh therapy session with a licensed mental health professional or licensed marriage and family therapist. So, you're definitely going to want to take advantage of that. No matter what stage your marriage is at, you can benefit. So, if you if it's if it's uh stuck somewhere, you're going to benefit from the from the things that you're going to hear.

If it's, you know, doing fairly well and just needs some maintenance, you're going to you're going to benefit um from the stuff you're hearing. And if you're single, you're going to learn things that you can take uh into the marriage when you get into one. Um so, you definitely just want to you want to check it out. So, there you see on the um there on your screen, it's new beginningcounseling.com/marriage retreat. If you just go to newbcounseling.com, you'll find the um area that you can click on for the marriage retreat, but it's nu-bgingcounseling.com.

Can I can I give my final statement? Yes, get your final statements. And that final statement is I'm going to give you I mentioned the sub populations um for that have lower rates of marriage and I I'll give you the subopuls and the um and the statistics. So apparently college a college college educated couples uh the approximate divorce rate is 25 to 30%. Down from 50%. Okay. Religious practicing couples 20 to 30%. Married after 25 asante was talking about 25 to 30%. Couples who cohabitated only after engagement uh divorce rate 30%.

Uh let's see and married under age 20 is like 60 to 70% and premarital cohabitating so no engagement 45 to 50%. Wow. So those send me those send me those numbers. Was that on chat? You know it. You know it. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I Yeah. I want to send those numbers to somebody. Somebody was asking me about that the other day. So I will I will send this right over to you. Yes. So, Sister Tante, this is it's all it was a pleasure uh working with you in season 3. Yes, always always a blessing to work with you, too.

And guys, we will be back for a brand new season at the beginning of September. And yeah, we're going to do even bigger and better things. We're going to have more special guests. Yes. Uh so, I think you should be looking forward to that. Um but during our summer break, please please please go back. We'll be um airing some of these on Monday nights, but you can go back on your own. Just go to mental health um mental health Mondays on on YouTube um and make sure it's our uh mental health Monday. Um so that uh you will be able to watch some of our older programs.

Can you guys still hear me? We can. It's It's showing It's not showing your picture. Yeah, that's okay. You guys know what I look like, so you're just hearing my voice. We're hearing your voice. and and we were and we were ending. So anyways, all right. Well, you guys have a good evening and I can't wait to see you back here um in September when we come back. But please go back and view some of the programs that you've missed over the three years. Take care, guys. And bye, Clint. Yeah. Bye, Clint.

We'll see you. Take care. Bye. All right. Bye. Bye.