Hello friends, welcome back to True Health Tuesday. My name is Maria Jose Hmel and today we are doing our last session of reversing diabetes and other metabolic diseases. I promised this was going to be a four-part series and today we're doing the last part. So if we if you're joining today for the first time um you can go back and watch the previous three sessions um and we have been covering not only diabetes but all the related diseases all the related conditions. So if you want to really know more about it, I recommend you go back and you will find out that diabetes is connected to so many other things, not just diabetes, but really the root cause.

So if you've been uh joining us for the last three sessions, we've been doing these every other week and you have been uh finding so many interesting things about how diabetes is connected or really the root cause of diabetes is really connected to so many other things. These things don't happen in a vacuum so to speak. they are connected because these are metabolic conditions uh that have the same root cause and that's why uh when we fix our lifestyle uh so to speak we connect we can fix everything it's just like the same medicine cures everything uh so it's really interesting in that sense so I'm so glad you're back um and uh I am happy because we are completing a cycle But we are really not done.

Next time we're going to continue talking about how we can change our habits, how we can change our lifestyle. And sometimes it seems very difficult, but we can do it. Uh so I will continue talking about that, but we will close this four session cycle if you will. So I'm very very um excited about this because I think I think some of these things will seem surprising to you. So, right off the bat, I let you know that these are surprising lifestyle strategies so that you can uh let your friends know uh let your uh uh go ahead and share this uh link with your friends because look, some of you might not even know that these lifestyle habits, these lifestyle strategies can actually change help you um defeat these metabolic conditions.

And when I speak about metabolic conditions, I mean cholesterol, other lipids, uh, hypertension, fatty liver, you know, all the other things we've been talking about for the last few weeks. That's what I mean. Even um, weight, overweight, and obesity. So, look at the, uh, look at what it says right here. Sleep, stress management, even fasting, sunlight. By the way, uh Dr. Schwelt, I know that he's done um other True Health Tuesdays in the past and I know he will be speaking soon and he talks a lot about sunlight exposure and I'll mention it briefly today because I know he'll probably talk about it again if he hasn't even he's probably done programs about the this in the past.

He'll probably uh see him in his own channel, YouTube channel. he can uh he's talked about it in his videos. So, you can go back to his YouTube channel and learn a lot more about it. So, I'll just mention it briefly today, but I will mention it today. This could be surprising for a lot of people and and I'll mention some things about the microbiota. If you don't know what it is, I'll talk about it, so don't worry. So, these things can be surprising for some people. So, go ahead and share this link.

tell your friends uh so you can find out more how these things that you are looking at right now can actually help so much with not just diabetes, pre-diabetes and insulin resistance but all the other conditions we've been talking about for the last few weeks to you. So, you know, the last few weeks we've been mentioning about diet and uh exercise, but it's not just that. Okay. So, we're going to talk about how you can actually have a perfect diet and do all the exercise in the world. And what if it's not enough?

What if you're perfect following a perfect diet and what if you're doing all the exercise in the world and it's not working? Well, what if some of these things are not in line? You know, what if what some of these things that you're looking at right here? What if you're not sleeping? You know, what if that's what's not uh working for you? What if that's what needs to be fixed? So, that's what we're going to be talking about. But before, as always, we need to start with prayer. So, before I forget, let's have a quick word of prayer and then we'll get right into it.

So, let's pray. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for this beautiful day and thank you for the opportunity to have this um this online meeting where we can talk about these important topics about how to take better care of our temple body that you have given us. And please bless this meeting, bless this presentation and help it to go well and help this uh presentation to get to all the people that need to watch it, that need to learn more about these important topics. Uh and please bless every single person that is connected tonight and that will watch it later.

Uh so that they will be able to appreciate and learn more and more and also share with other people. We ask you for this blessing in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right. So, as always, I want to make sure that you know that this is meant to be 100% educational, okay? This is not meant to be medical advice. So make sure that whatever you learn today that you will discuss it with your doctor if you have diabetes or you know if you have some other condition and that oh somebody is watching from New Brunswick.

I hope I pronounce it correctly from Canada. Thank you. Thank you for connecting today from Canada. I am so happy you're with us. So, as I was saying, make sure that if you have diabetes, especially if you're taking uh insulin or if you have uh high cholesterol, if you're taking statins or some other medication, if you're have high blood pressure, if you're taking blood pressure medications, etc. If you have any of these conditions, if you're taking medications, don't stop taking it without the advice of your doctor.

So, everything we're presenting today is for educational purposes. It's not meant to be medical advice. Okay. Also, as you know, I always say this, so if you're connecting for the first time, you're learning it or you're hearing this for the first time. If you've uh heard me say this before, this is just a uh review. I always say the following. Everything that I present, I always try to go according to the Bible and spirit of prophecy. as Isaiah 8 uh 8:20 says to the law and the testimony if they speak not according to this word is because there's no light in it or light in them.

So that is my rule and so that's why I'd like to say that as a disclaimer uh at the beginning because I hope that everything that I'm saying is according to this uh Bible and the spirit of prophecy. That's how I interpret Isaiah 8:20. And also I always present scientific evidence. Uh and this is the pyramid of the hierarchy of scientific evidence. The reason why I present it is because I want you to look at the bottom of the pyramid. And the bottom of the pyramid says expert opinion uh is at the very bottom.

So whenever you hear these things on social media or the internet and people uh just say opinions, they're just stuff uh that could be misinformation. Okay? Just look at what you're hearing. And if it's just people saying things, that doesn't mean it's good evidence. Okay? When you look at things on the internet or uh especially nowadays, social media, a lot of it, by the way, can be artificial intelligence. Okay? So, we just can't just believe everything we see. Okay? Make sure that you're looking at things that are good quality evidence.

That's why I present this to you to look at it so that it's for your own benefit. And a lot of people, you know, I've had my own um uh videos on YouTube, my in my own channel, and people tell me, "Why do you use so much science? We have the Bible and spirit of prophecy." Well, a lot of the things that we present, not everybody who watches it is a believer in the Bible and the spirit of prophecy. So, sometimes we need to use something that people will actually, you know, will believe in if they are not if they're not Christians, right?

And we need to I think be uh have credibility and also if by if we follow our own rule my rule uh is Isaiah 8:20 which says to the law and the testimony and the testimony I believe in the spirit of prophecy and the spirit of prophecy says a knowledge of science of all kinds is power and it is the purpose of God that advanced science shall be taught in our schools as preparation for the work that is to precede the closing scenes of Earth's history which is right now. So I believe it is very important that we present solid scientific evidence especially when we're talking to people who are not believers.

So oh I don't know how to pres uh um pronounce your name Hiva I don't know uh how to pronounce your name but you say you're saying yes I like to compare things too. Thank you very much. Uh so anyway, you can read the other um quotation here. It says, "A practical knowledge of science of human life is necessary in order to glorify God in our bodies." And just to kind of review things that I've said in the past, God wants us to use common sense and he wants us to be wise as serpents. He wants us to be prudent and acquire knowledge, to seek knowledge.

Okay? So this is review of things that I've said in the past. I just want you to know where I where I stand in those ter in those uh things. Okay. But going back to what we were talking about before in terms of diabetes, pre-diabetes and insulin resistance, I want you to know that insulin resistance as we we've said in the past is 100% reversible. And this is the root cause of all the conditions that we've talked about in the past. So if you are joining us for the first time, I recommend you go back to presentation number one where we talk about the root cause.

In fact, you can even go back further to my first presentation that I did for true health Tuesday which was 10 days to better health. And that's when I actually even talk more in detail about the root cause of these conditions and that is insulin resistance and how it starts in the body. And insulin resistance is 100% reversible you guys. That is great news. It's 100% reversible. Completely reversible. Pre-diabetes is also 100% reversible by the way. 100% reversible. And when we talk about how it is connected to all these conditions, well, okay, don't be discouraged because pre-diabetes and insulin resist uh resistance are reversible.

Now, type 2 diabetes, which is the most common co uh type of diabetes. There's not that's not the only kind of diabetes as you know. There's type one. There's gestational diabetes which happens during pregnancy goes away when the mom gives birth. But did you know that 50% of moms develop type 2 diabetes after they give birth and some moms within the f first five years after giving birth by the way some moms later. Uh so they are kind of connected. Type two and gestational. uh type one happens earlier in life usually in childhood youth.

That's an autoimmune uh diabetes. Now there's 1.5. I don't know if you remember that when I presented I think I mentioned uh 1.5 is also an autoimmune diabetes but happens later in life. Okay. And now they're you know now they're talking about type three. What? Okay. I also mentioned that before, but that's they're talking about Alzheimer's disease actually because they're saying that Alzheimer's disease is actually maybe a metabolic disease and happens because insulin resistance happens in the brain too.

Anyway, all these things, but type two might not be 100% reversible. There's a small percentage of people who maybe their pancreas is not working that good after many many years of overwork. Okay. So, in a small percentage of cases, it might not be 100% reversible. But that doesn't mean it cannot improve. Every single case can improve. Okay? So, even if it's not 100% reversible, it can still improve. Meaning, you don't have to use as many medications. You don't have to be uh getting worse and worse and worse.

In other words, you're the disease doesn't have to be advancing so much and getting more and more complications. You don't have to die early. Okay. So, you can still improve and prolong your life. Okay? So, in other words, by improving our uh habits, we can in our lifestyle, we can improve our health and prolong our life. When we talked about the root cause of diabetes, we talked about then the root cause of these conditions which was the insulin resistance. And if you remember that it happened because not necessarily because we eat only sugar, only excess of sugar, but it was actually because there's excess of do you see what's going on over here?

Fat, excess of lipids inside of the cells. All right? Inside of the cells. As you see right here, those lipids inside of cells are called intrammyiocellular lipids. Remember that these lipids get inside of the cells not just because we consume excess sugars, which is what most people think. Excess sugar causes diabetes. That's not the only thing. Excess sugars do become fat, but what about excess fat? It doesn't have to become anything. It's already fat. So, it's actually easier for the excess fat to just go right in inside the cell.

It doesn't be it doesn't need to be transformed into anything. It's already fat. It's actually way easier for the fat to be accumulated. In other words, and it's the fat inside of the cells that blocks the action of insulin. I'm just giving a review. All of this has already been said and Tyra says yes, fat. True. Okay, so she already knows, right? She's already heard this. Uh, and many of you already have too because I've already mentioned it in the past. So, it's the fat that's blocking the action of insulin.

Now, the the extra sugar becomes fat. The fat is already fat. So, the additional fat, the extra fat we consume in the diet goes right into the cell and it blocks the action of insulin. And that insulin is not working properly. Therefore, the glucose is not going inside the cell. That glucose that's not going inside the cell stays in the blood and that's the glucose that's starting to circulate all over the body and causing damage. Causing damage for reals. Now, here's a more anatomically correct picture.

Okay, so the the the picture before was just a little cartoon. Here we see a more anatomically correct in the sense that what we're looking at here are muscle cells. And on the top we see a nice pretty and normal muscle cell with no additional adipose tissue and and intramiocellular fat, intramiocellular lipid droplets. And when we see it down here in the bottom, a lot of yellow. the all the yellow is lipid lipid droplets especially uh the very end over here in the right because that's zoomed in now what we're looking at is actually the cells all the way zoomed in what we see in the yellow there these are lipid droplets in other words we're looking actually the fat inside of the cell that's the fat that's actually blocking the insulin if the insulin is not working, then the glucose is not going inside of the cell.

When the glucose is not going inside of the cell, it's staying outside, therefore in your blood and therefore when you go to the doctor, the doctor measures your blood sugar, it comes up high. Now, this is the picture that I've been showing you over and over again. Look at these circles around the insulin resistance. Do you see all these things? Of course, you see first the types of insulin. One, 1.5, pre-diabetes, type two, gestational. These are all types of diabetes. Okay. Okay. After you look at all the types of diabetes, then we start looking at things that are not diabetes.

Remember? Remember, right? Cancer. What's cancer have to do with anything? Well, it's connected because insulin resistance is a risk factor for cancer. Cancer, coronary artery disease, hypertension, atherosclerosis. What's atherosclerosis again? Atherosclerosis is when the arteries become harder. They start getting all that cholesterol really inside of the artery. They start getting clogged up really. Then it says obesity. What obesity? Because all that insulin that is circulating. You have hyperinsulinemia.

Remember when the uh when the insulin is not working properly and now your pancreas is going well but what's kind what's going on? What's going on? Why is there so much sugar in your body? And it starts pumping up more insulin. Now you have hyperinsulinemia, meaning you have more insulin than normal. And now all that insulin, did you know that insulin is the growth hormone? By the way, it's actually making you gain weight. The insulin is making you gain weight. I don't know if I've mentioned this before, but here it goes.

Insulin makes you gain weight. In fact, people who start injecting insulin when they have to because they have diabetes not under well under control. In fact, type ones people who with type one they have to and many many people in fact the majority of people who have to start injecting insulin can weigh can gain up to 20 pounds in one month just from injecting the insulin. So insulin will make people store more fat and so it leads to obesity. Says right there, right? Obesity, high cholesterol, fatty liver.

We've mentioned this many, many times. These are all things that are complications of insulin resistance that are not connected to diabetes necessarily. I mean, they are connected, but they're not diabetes. In other words, uh fatty liver, PCOS. Do you know what PCOS is? Do you guys know what PCOS is? Polycystic ovarian syndrome, ovary syndrome. So, these are things that you don't want to think it's connected to uh insulin resistance. Well, it is. So, it messes up your hormones. Alzheimer's disease.

We already mentioned some people call it type three diabetes. Type three. Neuropathy. You know what that is, right? Neuropathy. Neuropathy is when the nerve endings, especially the very tiny nerves in the tip of your fingers or your toes, they don't work properly anymore. So now you start not feeling uh you lose kind of the the sense uh then the sensibility this you don't feel anymore some or it maybe you feel like tingling um and then sometimes we tell diabetics not to walk barefoot for instance when I used to work uh as a clinical nutritionist and we would give counseling to diabetics do not walk barefoot at home Why?

Why? Because you would sometimes walk barefoot, step on a piece of glass or a nail or whatever, don't even feel it. And what happens if you walk around, walk on a, you know, a piece of step on a piece of glass or whatever and not even feel it? Well, you might have some kind of injury or whatever or you some kind of uh sore or something uh and then it gets all dirty and then what happens? It gets in uh infected. If it gets all dirty, you don't even realize it. And what happens to those infections?

They don't heal. They don't heal very well because by the way, people with diabetes have lower what? Lower immunity. Therefore, their uh any infections, they don't heal so well. They their infections don't go away so fast. They stay around. They stick around longer. They have a cold, they have flu, they have a a COVID infection, they last longer. Okay. So, the neuropathy, that's what it is. Their nerve uh endings don't they basically get damaged. Blindness. Blindness. I met a 40year-old lady in a town not too far from here.

40 year old lady completely blind. At 40 years old the retina detaches and uh that's what happens when uh persons whose retina detaches they don't see anymore. They get they become blind. A kidney failure as you know one of the main causes of kidney failure and dialysis actually in this country is due to type 2 diabetes retinopathy. So we already talked about that is a a problem with the retina and the eye erectile dysfunction. There's yet another thing that you don't think is caused by insulin resistance but it is.

It could be. So all of these things, do you see all of these things? You think they're not related, but they actually are. So some of these are complications of insulin resistance that are not even have to, you don't even think they're not even diabetes. They're not diabetes, but they are connected. So that's why we've been talking about this all these. So this is the fourth the fourth session that we've been talking about all these things, right? They're all connected and that's why since they're all connected, they have the same solution.

They have the same cure in a way. I don't want to say the word cure, but the ADA basically said it could be cure. So, they said it, not me. Now, the the second session we talked about diet. I'm not going to talk about diet again. If you want to go back, you can watch the second program of the four. We talked about which diet is best and we explained why the whole food plant-based diet, which by the way is the same diet mentioned in the Bible. Genesis 1:29. Oh, we have Please pray for me. I'm on a 30-day sugar fast.

My first time. Denise, yes, we will pray for you, everybody. Everybody, we should all pray for Denise because she's on a 30-day sugar fast. I commend you for that, Denise. I think that's a great idea. Wonderful. In fact, I think we should all go on a permanent sugar fast. I mean, and I and by sugar, I mean processed sugar because uh you can see right here in the picture, you see, for instance, kiwi, mango. These are fruits and God gave us Oh, oranges also. There's some nice fruits over here in this basket.

God gave us uh fruits that have sugar that is actually uh that is actually mixed with fibers and with antioxidants and and with um vitamins and minerals and these sugars are you're welcome Denise these sugars are actually beneficial for us. So these are god-given sugars in a way. But the industrial sugars, the processed sugars, those are highly um refined and highly processed and have nothing good for you. So I I congratulate you for that. So good for you. Okay. So that was key number one. We already talked about it.

And of course the uh session after that we talked about the physical activity. And I hope you remember that we said that everybody talks about walking. Walking is great. I absolutely think everybody should walk every day. In fact, and for people who have diabetes, remember the best time for walking. Remember, if you don't remember, go back, watch it again. Well, I'll just tell you the best time for walking for diabetics is hopefully after every meal. If you're not diabetic, do it anytime, whatever time of the day that will work for you.

But if you're diabetic, hopefully after after every meal. But remember that walking is not enough. Go back to that to that uh program. Watch it again to that uh uh video. Watch it again because if you're not doing resistance exercise, you are losing muscle. You are losing it. If you're not using it, you're literally losing it. All right? So watch it again if you haven't watched it. So those two keys are important, but it might not be enough. As I said from the beginning, in fact, you know, I'll just tell you, I've seen at least several cases.

I'm not going to say one or two. I'm just going to say several cases. I remember one lady, I'm just going to tell you one lady uh that I had as a as a patient. In fact, when I used to work at the clinic, and I remember this poor lady, she her sugars were in the 300 400 range all the time. And she was an insulin of course and then and then you know I started she started being you know I I started counseling she was a patient of the clinic and uh and I would see her every like month or whatever for in nutrition counseling and I know she I I'm pretty sure she was being honest.

She was a very nice person older older lady maybe in her 50s or or I mean 60s or 70s and um and she just seemed like a very honest person to me. So, I think she was following the nutritional counseling and I think she was being honest and walking every day and and then she would come back and her sugars were just really bad and she was on insulin, you guys. She was taking medications. She was doing everything and and her sugars were just not getting any better at all. And I'm thinking something's going on with this person.

Why is why is she even if she's trying so hard with her diet, with her exercise, even the insulin is not working. What's going on with this person? And so I and then, you know, I started talking to her a little bit more, a little bit more. I'm finding out this poor lady is having a terrible time with her husband. In fact, her husband kicked her out of the room of their bedroom. So, she's sleeping in the living room and she says, you know, she lives with a couple a couple of her sons and they get up at crazy times in the uh in the morning to go to work or whatever.

So, I'm like, "How many hours of sleep do you get every night?" And she's like, "Maybe three, maybe four." And I'm like, "For reals, you only sleep three or four hours a night?" And she's like, "Yeah, sometimes even less." And I'm just what? What? I am petrified after what she says. Like she's only getting three hours of sleep, four hours of sleep, sometimes even less. I'm thinking, no wonder she can't control her blood sugars, right? Like she's not getting sleep and she's stressed out. And then she starts telling me more and more she's she has all these phobias.

She has all kinds of uh mental health issues, right? She has crazy amounts of stress with her son, with her uh husband. So now I'm realizing and what I wanted to show you here with this slide is lifestyle medicine. So all these different areas of lifestyle medicine. I'm certified lifestyle medicine professional, right? So I got certified by the American College of Lifestyle Medicine and we go way far above and beyond just diet and exercise. There's other important areas of lifestyle medicine. And also if you are an Adventist you know that we talk about the eight principles of health uh which go above and beyond just diet and exercise.

There's sleep, rest, right? This is a part of the eight principles of health or also called the eight true remedies. So sleep and rest uh trusting God which I think is also uh the best way by the way to control stress I think anyway. Uh these are important parts of medicine. They cure the body. If you're not getting enough sleep, you're probably even if you eat a perfect diet and do all the exercise in the world, your body is not healing. So, that's what we're going to talk about today because I think it's important to keep this in mind that you can have the perfect diet and the the perfect exercise, but if you're leaving all these other things out, if you're neglecting these important aspects of health, you might not be seeing the results you want because of it.

So, let's talk about sleep for instance, and I think it's surprising some of these things that you that I'm going to show you. For instance, it said it talks about in this uh one study. It says role of sleep in the regulation of what? Look at what it says right here uh right here. Role of sleep duration in the regulation of glucose. What? Glucose metabolism and appetite. H sleep duration. Oh wow, that's interesting. Okay, let's look at what it says more in detail. So, it says right here, experimentally induced sleep loss.

Tyrus says yes. Okay. Uh experimentally induced sleep loss in healthy volunteers. Look at what it did. Okay. So, these people basically took a a bunch of volunteers, healthy volunteers, and they deprived them of sleep to see what happened. What did it do? It decreased insulin sensitivity. Okay. So they started experimenting insulin resistance. That's what started happening. That's what it means when it says decreased insulin sensitivity. Okay. Without adequate compensation and beta cell function.

What does that mean? Beta cells are the ones in your pancreas. In other words, they saw insulin resistance and the pancreas wasn't compensating for it. That's what it says. Resulting in what? Impaired glucose tolerance. Impaired glucose tolerance means the glucose numbers started going up and increased diabetes risk. This is just from lack of sleep. in healthy volunteers. So then it says lack of sleep also down regulates the satiety hormone leptin. I'm going to break I'm going to repeat this. Okay, this is very important.

Please pay attention. Open up your ears and your eyes. Lack of sleep also downregulates that means decreases the satiety hormone leptin. It decreases your satiety you guys. You're going to be hungrier when you do not sleep. You're going to be hungrier. Upregulates. What does that mean? upregulate. It elevates the appetite stimulating hormone grein. Double whammy. You're going to downregulate, you're going to decrease the satiety hormone and you're going to increase the appetite stimulating hormone.

This is a double whammy, appetite dysregulation. So that increases hunger and food intake. Do you see what's going on here? Do you see what's going Did you know that lack of sleep did this? If you didn't know, now you do. So if you're not sleeping, you're messing up your insulin sensitivity and now you're eating more. You're hungrier. Wow. Wow. I hope I hope you're paying attention. All right. Okay. Here's another one. Metabolic consequences of sleep and sleep loss. Well, what could be the metabolic consequences of sleep and sleep loss?

Okay, here it is clear that chronic sleep deprivation. Oh, I've heard some people, you know what? Some people have told me this. I am okay with sleeping four hours a night. I'm totally okay with it. My body is totally used to it now. Or really, is it? Look at what it says right here. It is clear that chronic sleep deprivation, by chronic sleep deprivation, they're not talking about four hours, by the way. They're saying less than six. That's chronic sleep deprivation. Less than six. Chronic sleep deprivation has deletterious.

That means negative effects on carbohydrate metabolism. Carbohydrate metabolism, glucose And is associated with an increased risk of what? What does it say? Diabetes. Alter levels of hormones central to what? You guys look at the words. alter levels of hormones central to appetite regulation such as the two we just read. Leptin and grein. Leptin suppresses appetite and grein stimulate appetite. So these are like opposite, right? They work kind of together. So they both get dis disregulated occur in sleepdeprived individuals and consistent with this neuroendocrine disregulation of hunger and appetite a large number of epidemiological studies have identified short sleep duration as a puditive novel risk factor for weight gain and obesity.

What this is saying you guys is that when people do not sleep enough, it has been found in large epidemiological study meaning population studies that lack of sleep causes weight gain and obesity. You guys, that's basically what this is saying. And how does it do it? By disregulating our appetite, which how? By disregulating our hormones that regulate our appetite. That's what's happening. We don't realize it, you guys. You don't notice. You don't know why you're hungry here. Well, it's happening without you really noticing.

You're just hungry here. It's because your hormones are messed up by not sleeping. Now what this other study shows is that when they have done these programs that are called sleep extension programs basically programs that teach people better habits uh so that they can sleep more. So they teach you basically, okay, uh, take a nice warm bath before going to sleep. Turn off the lights to, you know, like the lights that are on the ceiling. Don't turn them on like turn on the the lights that are like on your on your uh, table by your bedside.

Uh, don't use screens at night, especially blue lights. Uh, don't watch TV or use your phone. These are sleep hygiene. So just look it up. use your uh uh search engine and look up sleep hygiene and you can find all these different habits that you can start uh uh adopting basically to get better sleep. So this is this is what's called sleep extension. Uh so what they're doing in this study is they're teaching people these better habits and what they found is that with these sleep extension programs, people who have followed it, they actually improve their insulin sensitivity.

So people who sleep better improve their insulin sensitivity. In other words, they decrease their insulin resistance. Better sleep, better insulin sensitivity, you guys. It works hand in hand. Isn't that interesting? Wow. So Denise says, "I knew about the heart, but wow, it makes you hungry." Yes. Yes, it makes you hungry. Would you know? Okay. So, in other words, when you when you now starts to sleep better, now your insulin starts to work better because they're connected. And in this other study, people with sleep apnea.

Okay, so when you have obstructive sleep apnea and type 2 diabetes, now they found that when that is treated, it actually helps with glycemic control. So again, there's a connection between between the control of glucose and sleep. So this is just a confirmation of that. I'm just showing you more and more um evidence of the connection between sleep and glucose control. So people with sleep apnnea and type two diabetes, sure enough, once they started sleeping better because they controlled their sleep apnnea, their glucose control improved.

Tada. Same thing here. CPAP therapy with sleep apnnea, type two diabetes improves glycemic control during sleep. More proof of that. Interesting, right? So there's more and more connection. So I just wanted to show you that you guys. So interesting, surprising. I hope I hope some of you have learned the importance of sleep especially when it has to do with glucose control and insulin resistance. So for people who are having a hard time and even if you're not having a hard time, everybody needs to sleep.

Everybody needs to sleep is one of the true remedies. I don't know if you have read that quote in Ministry of Healing. I think it's page 89 if I don't if I'm not mistaken. If you haven't read the book Ministry of Healing, I recommend it. You can read it for free. You can download in your phone. Where's my phone? Right here. Download it in your phone for free. And honestly, it's one of the most wonderful blessings in the world. You can read it. And in that uh quote where it lists all the eight principles of health at the end it says these are the true remedies true remedies and one of them is rest and by rest we mean the daily rest the eight hours that we all need our bodies at least seven you guys everybody it varies from person to person some people might be okay with seven seven and a half some people may need eight some people may need eight and a enough.

But everybody needs at the very least seven. I don't think people can do very well with less than seven honestly. Uh but some people may need eight and some people may need a little bit more. Whatever. But we need all to sleep. We we're not made to be awake so many hours that you can only be okay with four hours. That's not that's just not right. Uh our bodies rejuvenate re that repair tissues. Did you know that your brain flushes out toxins at night? By the way, this is called the glimpmphatic uh uh system.

At night, your brain flushes out toxins, but that only happens at night. By the way, this is something people always ask me in connection to intermittent fasting. If you have a late dinner, let's say you eat at 8:00 p.m., go to sleep at 10:00. There's zero ways that that dinner was already digested by the way you go to by the time you go to sleep. So that digestion has not been completed. Therefore, you go to sleep. Digestion continues overnight. Digestion takes a lot of energy. So while you're sleeping, a lot of energy is still being used by digestion, the digestive process.

Therefore, all the energy that should have gone to the repair of tissues, the detoxification and all these different things that have to do with repair, rejuvenation and detoxification, all these different things and healing is not happening because all that energy is going into digesting still. So proper healing, proper recover, proper detoxification is not happening if you eat dinner late. You have to eat earlier. If you're going to sleep with food in your stomach, the energy that's supposed to be be used for all the proper things that are supposed to be happening during the night are not happening.

Just saying. Okay, next thing is what happens with stress? How does stress um affect our levels of blood sugar? How stress affect uh insulin resistance? You're welcome, Denise, for the information. You're very, very welcome. Okay, so let's go to stress. How does stress affect insulin resistance, blood sugar, etc. Okay, well, look at this. Stress and hypoglycemia. What does stress do? Well, it elevates the hormone that you probably already heard a million times. There's a hormone that has to do with stress.

So, basically, our bodies were made so that if you're walking around in the jungle, in the woods, let's say, uh, and you encounter a big bear, what happens? What happens if you go hiking in the woods and all of a sudden you see a mountain lion or a big bear? What do you need to do? Well, let's say you're in the jungle, you see a lion. Well, maybe you need to run. For that, you need a lot of energy. Okay? So, that stress uh provokes a spike in cortisol. And cortisol makes your blood sugar go up because you need energy.

You need energy to be alert. You need energy for maybe running and get out of the way so that you are not eaten by a big lion. Um that's basically why you need more sugar when you're stressed out. Right today, uh 21st century, we're not being chased by lions. We're not being chased by bears or tigers or any of those things. So when we're stressed, it's not because we're in a situation where we have to run necessarily for our lives. Instead, we're more like chronically stressed in a sedentary life, right?

In context of sedentary lifestyle. And so this kind of stress is not good and is actually hurting. This high amounts of cortisol is actually causing uh chronic diseases such as diabetes, myioardial inffection. What is that? A heart attack. Uh so these high levels of cortisol are actually leading to chronic diseases. And so that's what stress is doing to us. Now, in this study that I just showed you, there's this graph, this graphic, sorry, this graphic. And it's interesting because it's showing here the stress up on top.

Of course, this is a picture of the brain. All kinds of very interesting and intricate uh connections, right, between stress and look at right here, inflammation. In fact, I found this grow I found this study when I was back in 2020 when we were all online. I was doing a lot of presentations online about the immune system actually and I was doing a presentation. A lot of people were asking me for this presentation on the eight ways to improve your immunity. And I found this study that talks about stress and how stress actually increases inflammation as you can see right here.

And you can see that stress increases inflammatory cytoines, chemocines, and other molecules that have to do with inflammation. It increases inflammation. And down at the bottom it says that this has to this actually can elevate the um the risk for infe infections because later actually in this same study there's a whole table that talks about how this stress can actually reduce the um some of these um some of the immunity some of the imu some of parts of the immune system. Actually if you can read right here a lot of the in the table talks about how it the different parts of different stress different types of stress actually reduces immunity but also in the yellow I actually highlighted that it increases something called C reactive protein which is a marker for inflammation.

So this is connected the stress, the inflammation and the reduction of the immune system. It's all connected. So unfortunately all of this also can lead to a uh increase the increase in inflammation can also lead to chronic diseases and a reduction in in the immune system is really bad for diabetics as you know because people with diabetes who have high blood sugar and uh have reduced immunity as we said before people with diabetes as you probably know if they get any cut anything like that especially especially in the feet or any other place like that.

If it doesn't heal and if it leads to an infection that doesn't heal, it doesn't heal. Doesn't he? Unfortunately, I have met many people who have had to have fingers or worse yet toes or part of their feet amputated because of the u the infections not healing. So bad for the immune system. It's bad that the immune system is lowered like that because of stress. So, managing stress says this uh study right here improves long-term glycemic control in type 2 diabetes. In fact, you can read right here in the conclusion.

It says current results indicate that cost effective group stress management program in realw world setting can result in clinically significant benefits for patient with type 2 diabetes. Stress management can lead to realworld results. In other words, can lead to significant benefits of glucose control. just stress management. By the way, uh it has been found that people who are chronically stressed or even in uh types of anxiety just doing deep breathing. Did you know just deep brea just stop and do deep breathing exercise and by deep breathing you count to six and just breathe in counting to six and then breathe out counting counting to seven.

So breathing six and breathe out to seven and just repeat that uh five to 10 times and that alone can bring down your even your blood pressure. uh and your anxiety in just like five minutes. So that that's that alone is a very good exercise. But also going out for walks, being surrounded with green, the green color seems to be very beneficial. I think that's by nature because God made it like like that. But going out to places where there is a lot of green or um just sound of water if you can go to a place with a river or the ocean or a lake uh just going out to nature can also be very very beneficial.

Of course prayer and I'll show you actually. So here's deep breathing. And it says right here, the results obtained from the present research support the possibility that deep breathing technique is capable to induce an effective improvement in mood. So people with depression, anxiety uh and stress both in terms of self-reported evaluation and objective parameters such as heart rate can bring down heart rate and salivary cortisol levels. So it can bring down both cortisol and uh and heart rate. So that's very important.

But look so so no number one breathe uh breathe deeply. Okay? So do the deep breathing exercises. But look at this you guys. This is a scientific uh study. I'm not making it up. It says spirituality moderates the effects of stress on emotional and physical adjud adjustment. And it says right here in the abstract, the results showed that spirituality buffered the adverse effects of stress on adjustment controlling for the use of various coping strategies. In other words, even these uh journals are showing that people who have a spiritual life can have better stress management.

So just having a spiritual life, prayer, um maybe reading a your Bible, that kind of thing can help you reduce your stress. I believe that trust in God. You know how we have the remedies, the eight true remedies. Trust in God. Number one, stress management. That's my opinion. That's my humble opinion, but it's it's right there, right? I think it's given to us by God. The true remedies in number one stress management, trusting God. Okay. I want to mention you guys the interesting benefits of intermittent fasting for diabetes, pre-diabetes and IR means insulin resistance.

I don't know how many of you know because I want to mention this because when I used to work at the clinic way back then especially back then everybody was telling diabetics that you had to eat six times a day. I don't know if you remember this. Now it's not so much, but I'm telling you, 10 years ago, everybody was telling diabetics they had to eat the three meals plus the three snacks or else, oh my goodness, your blood sugars were going to be out. Oh, those so terrible. So, you had to had to had to eat six times a day every two hours.

So, it was just the mantra. Everybody had to do it. And you know, some of us who have been reading the uh the writings of the spirit of prophecy and we we know that eating two times a day is even better than three according to the writings of the spirit of prophecy. And we're looking at this going, "Wait a minute, six times a day." It's like, what? That's not even close to the two times a day. Like what in the world? Uh so but then now science has vindicated I think in my view has vindicated uh what has been revealed so long ago because science ultimately always reveals truth always science always vindicates truth in my view okay so I just want to show you something first of all let's clear up What's intermittent fasting?

Because there's a lot of different kinds of intermittent fasting. You probably you probably heard the term intermittent fasting, right? You probably have or at least fasting. Fasting has been done for millennia. Thousand in fact from before Christ. The Greeks did it. I mean, the Bible has been done. Of course, it's been mentioned uh from the Old Testament. uh but this has been done for thousands of years. Now more recently we hear intermittent fasting but there's different kinds. So we hear of alternate date fasting.

So that means you fast one day and then another day you don't and then another day you do. You can fast a whole day or part of the day. But there's another kind of fasting called timerestricted feeding. Timerestricted feeding means you eat for a window of time. That could be eight hours. That could be your eating window or it could be 6 hours or it could be 10 hours. And then the rest of the day, the rest of the 24 hours you fast. So that's what timerestricted feeding means. It means you dedicate six or eight hours to eating and the rest of the day is fasting.

That's what timerestricted feeding means. Okay. So, which one is better? Which one is best? Well, let's see. Most people are doing this inter uh this timerestricted eating or type restricted But if you Google intermittent fasting, everybody is doing or most people are doing the 168. And this is what they're doing right here. They're getting up. They're skipping breakfast. Most people are skipping breakfast and they're starting their eating window at noon, more or less. Look at what they're doing.

Skip breakfast, start to eat at noon, and they eat until 8, more or less. And then they they start their fast and they go overnight until 6:00 in the morning or whatever. and then they skip breakfast and they continue their fast until noon. That is the most popular nowadays that I have seen. I don't know about you guys. What have you seen? What have you noticed? What's the most popular type of intermittent fasting? Have you fasted? By the way, if you fasted, put it in the chat. What kind of fasting have you done?

And what kind of fasting do you think is the most popular kind? because this is the kind that I've noticed anyway. And what do you think? What do you think is best? Here's another one. So, this is just what I've searched, okay? Just by looking, just Google intermittent fasting. This comes up. Look at this. Here's another example. 6:00 a.m. you wake up. At 7:00 a.m. you drink tea, presumably with no sugar, right? Because you're still fasting. At 9:00 a.m., you drink more tea with no sugar, probably.

Look at what time you eat your first meal. 12 noon. That's your first meal. At 400 p.m. you work out. 6:00 p.m. Second meal. Big meal. Oh, look. Big meal at 6 p.m. Oh, look. 8:00 p.m. late snack. And at 10 p.m. you go to sleep. See? Okay. Here's another one. Intermittent fasting. fasting window. See, same thing. Same thing you guys. This is the most popular that I have noticed. What have you noticed? Put in the chat if you noticed anything different. But this is what I have noticed. This is the most popular type of intermittent fasting.

What do you think? Is this the most Is this the healthiest? Well, look at this. Look at this right here. Well, the top we have three clocks. Okay, we have three clocks or three different ways you can do this. The top says add libitum. Ad libbitum. Do you see the very top? Ad libitum means eat whatever you want at whatever time. There's no fasting here. Do whatever. which is the American way or you know just the western way meaning eat whatever at whatever time. Well that leads to an increase in chronic diseases.

Do you see that right there? It whatever at whatever time no no uh no restrictions diseases. But look at the middle. Well, no. Let's skip the middle. Let's go down to the bottom. The bottom says delay. See that? The word delay and then TR. Well, TR means timerestricted eating. As we mentioned before, this is when you pick a window of eating. And the delay timerestricted eating is what I was showing you. You delay your first meal to noon. For instance, just to give you an example, which is the most common, you delay the first meal until noon and then you eat until 8:00 p.m.

That's the delay timerestricted eating. And then you see a big mark question mark. Why the big question mark? Well, because the data has not really showed a consistent uh result in reducing risk of chronic condition or chronic diseases or weight loss. Some people lose weight, not everybody. In some studies, they've shown decrease and risk uh risk of chronic diseases. Not every single study has shown benefit. That's why big question mark. So you see that the one in the middle says early timerestricted eating.

What does that mean? You do not delay your first meal. You eat it when you get up. You don't delay it. You eat early. meaning you get up, you have your breakfast, let's say 8:00 a.m. breakfast, then you eat lunch, maybe you have a six hour in between those two meals. Let's say you have 2:00 p.m. lunch, late lunch, and that's it for your eating window. Or maybe you have an 8 hour eating window. You have a 12 a 12:00 p.m. lunch and a 400 p.m. early dinner or whatever. So that's it. That's your eight hour window and that's it.

And then the rest of the day it's a fast. And so overnight you fast and the evening you're not eating either. That's early timerestricted eating. And look at what it leads to. It leads to a decrease. The arrow is going down and it's consistent. The data in the literature is consistent. It leads to consistent lowered risk of chronic diseases and most people lose weight consistently. It's not a big question mark like the delayed version of it. The literature is very very consistent like the early timerestricted eating always hardly ever is mixed like this always very very consistently leads to a um a decrease.

So that's what I want to show you. Look at this in in relation to insulin. Oh, sorry about the red lines. I want it wanted to be underlined but instead I moved it and now it shows like it's crossing it. It's not supposed to be crossed. It's supposed to be underlined it. Um, early timerestricted feeding or eating, either way. Sometimes it says feeding or timerestricted eating. It's supposed to be underlined. Improves insulin sensitivity. All right. Improves insulin sensitivity. Blood pressure. Oxidative stress.

Even without weight loss, even if you're not losing weight, even if you're eating a bunch of calories, you're still improving your insulin sensitivity and blood pressure and oxidative stress. meaning you're bringing down inflammation. Um so always is I mean that the the the literature is uh with this type of uh early time or intermittent fasting. I wanted to show you here the the plate with the times, right? So the one in the left basically the most common eating pattern for the western world. I wanted to include Canada because it's not just Americans is Canada, Australia, Europe.

Most people eat just whatever time. Um and compare that to the one on the left early time early time restricted eating. And that's when you eat early. So you get up, you eat. In this case, they stopped eating at 2 p.m. In this study, they stopped eating at 2 p.m. So, the extended fasting is quite long. It's like 18 hours. But look at what it what it did down here at the bottom. You see the results. Uh the insulin after meals, that's what postprandial that word postandial means. After meals, the insulin required after meals went down because your insulin sensitivity goes up, meaning you need less insulin.

You're most sensitive to insulin. Therefore, you need less of it because your beta cell function is better. Beta cells are the cells in your pancreas that make insulin. That's what that means. So, your pancreas is working better and your body is responding to that insulin better. Therefore, you need less insulin. That's that's what that all means. Over here, you see blood pressure goes down, oxidative stress goes down, meaning less inflammation, all that less damage. Appetite in the evening, you guys.

Appetite. You're eating less in the evening and yet your appetite goes down. How could it be? You're eating less and yet you're not even eating in the evening. You're fasting in the evening. How is that possible? You're not eating and yet your appetite has gone down. Interesting. Right now, I want you to notice here that the there's a red arrow because it appears to be negative. That the triglycerides go up. triglycerides go up. Fasting triglycerides go up. I want to tell you why that happens. That happens because people are losing weight.

And so when people lose weight, and in this case, what's happening is that they're in what's called the fat oxidation. Fat oxidation means you're burning fat and you're an extended fast when so the fasting triglycerides when they measure the triglycerides in the morning they this is after an extended fat fast as after an extended fast of 18 hours people have are burning fat at that moment they're in fat oxidation so what's happening in many people is that these fats these triglycerides these uh fatty acids ids are mobilized.

They're burning fat at that moment. So when they prick their fingers, they measure their triglycerides, the fats are at that moment mobilized in their body. In other words, they're in fat oxy. They're burning fat at the moment. So when they measure their triglycerides, the fats are in their blood. They're they're being used as as fuel in that moment. That's the that's the theory anyway. That's why the and what happens is while their weight while they're losing weight their triglycerides are elevated.

Um but when the weight is stabilizes their triglycerides come back down and then they stabilize as well. So while they're losing weight their triglycerides are higher fasting triglycerides are higher and then they come back down. Okay. Uh I want to show you here the what happens with the glucose. I'm going to skip this one because what I really want to show you is this. This was what happens. The dark bars are the people who are fasting and the white bars are the people who don't fast. And look at what happening over here.

Look at every single one of these comparisons. The desire to eat, especially look at the evening. Okay, the desire to eat in the evening. The dark bar is the fasting people. The group that's fasting. The desire to eat in the evening is lower in the people who are fasting. The desire to eat in the evening. These are the people who are fasting in the evening. And yet their desire to eat is lower for those who are fasting in the evening. Same with their capacity to eat. Same with their hunger. The people who are fasting are less hungry than the people who are not fasting.

How is that possible? You guys, not only that, look at the two bottom ones. Look at the evening fullness, you guys. Are you looking at this? Are you seeing what I'm seeing? No, for reals. How is it possible that a person who is fasting is more full in the evening than a person who is not fasting for reals I'm just asking and specifically stomach fullness in the evening is more in the person who's fasting who Supposedly their stomach is empty if they're fasting and yet they feel more stomach fullness than the person who's not fasting.

Explain to me how's that possible? You want to know? Have you ever heard of a medication that's super popular right now called Ompic Wiggoi? GLP1. They cost like $1,000 a month. Have you Has anyone ever heard of those? Put a put a one into chat if you've heard of these expensive medications that everybody's on. Everybody's losing weight. It's like $1,000 a month. If your insurance doesn't cover it, that is if you're lucky enough, your insurance covers it, right? Unfortunately, if you get off the medication, you gain all the way back the minute you're off the medication.

They do have some side effects. A lot, actually. Have you heard of them? If you have, put a one in the chat, please. They're called GLP-1 medications because of the appetite hormone they control. A one. We have a one. We have another one. So, some of you have heard of this. I just want I have some ones in the chat. All right. Sharon, Valerie, and May. Thank you very much, you guys. I just want to show you what intermittent fasting, specifically early timerestricted eating, can do to your appetite hormones.

You guys, not only GLP1, which is right here in the corner. You see it? GLP, GLP1. Also, grein, leptin, and P Y. These are all appetite hormones, you guys. Wow. My doctor asked me, was I on that medication? I told him no. It's not in his chart. Lol. Told him I drink lemon water. Awesome, Denise. Good for you. I presume he asked you because you've been losing weight and and he asked you because of that and you said no, you've been uh drinking lemon water. Good for you. Awesome. Good for you. Okay.

Well, I just want to show you. So, lots of ones over here. Kenny and Ve and Denise. All right. You guys watch intermittent fasting can improve your appetite hormones. That's why we saw what we saw in the previous slide. You're less hungry in the evening. You feel more fullness. More fullness at the people who do eat because of this. Because of this, there's more. The only one that that doesn't really make sense is the leptin because there's a tiny little bit of less leptin in the evening, but there's also less grein, which is the appetite stimulating hormone.

There's more P Y and there's more GLP1. So, the combination of all of it is that there's less appetite in the evening. As we saw in that other previous slide, the combination of all these changes is less appetite in the evening. There it is. Yes. Okay. So, that's what that doctor asked you, Denise. All right. Great. So, you're giving them a good example. So, if you don't want to go on those expensive medications, here's another option for you. do t r e timerestricted eating. I've been doing it for 5 years.

It's so hard for me to eat in the evening. I get a stomach ache. I literally can't eat. Cannot eat. Cannot. That's why honestly you guys, it says right here, oops, went too far. Capacity to eat. Do you see right there? Top middle. When I go with my family for Thanksgiving, I have to take major amounts of charcoal that day after the dinner because I can't eat. It's hard you guys. After some time of dinner, it's hard. You can't eat capacity to eat. It goes down. You can't do it. I'm just saying. I'm telling you.

Your A1C went down. What are the best time to eat? It depends. May it depends on your own schedule. So, if you get up at 6, well, you're going to have to eat early. But if you get up at 9, you know, so it depends. It depends on your schedule. But they say, I think the best time to eat is within an hour of getting up. So, it depends on what time you get up, what time you go to bed. So, if you get up, if you go to bed some some like my uncle goes to bed at 8:00 p.m. So, he would need to eat at different times that I I go to bed around 10:00.

So, you know, it depends on what time you get up and you go to bed. But within an hour of going or getting up, have your first meal and then the next meal, maybe about five to 6 hours after that. And um you know, if you're going to have a three meal schedule, maybe that's a little different, but your next meal should be 5 to 6 hours after that if you're going to do two two meals. So, and so your your eating window should be 6 to eight hours more or less. More or less. So, that's that's what they recommend here.

This was a six-hour eating window. So, I wanted to show you this also. Prolonged overnight fast reduces cancer. Why? Because we saw how cancer is connected to inter uh to the insulin resistance. That's basically what's going on here. So, it reduces uh the glucose. It benefits glucose control in other words. And that's what's improving the cancer risk. That's it. So that's it's all connected you guys. Here's another one. Timerestricted feeding and potential for type 2 diabetes melodies. Type two diabetes in other words.

And what does it say later in this study right there? says time TRF that's timerestricted feeding as a longterm uh adjunct treatment may be an effective safe and attainable method of reducing body weight, blood pressure and IR that means insulin resistance in patients with type two diabetes. Researchers suggest that fasting may provide various health benefits for patients diagnosed with or hoping to prevent. So not just with for diabetes, it's for preventing diabetes and other chronic metabolic diseases.

So not just for diabetes or prevention diabetes, all other diseases that we mentioned before. TRF, in other words, timerestricted feeding holds potential for reducing insulin resistance, a core defect of type 2 diabetes that is often ignored or undertreated. That's what we've been saying you guys. So look it, this is from the obesity society is the same eating window we talked about. 8 to two 8 to2 same eating window obesity society. And look at what they're saying over here. Look at the caption right there.

The little paragraph. It says early timerestricted feeding can increase fat. Are you looking at it? Fat burning. I'm not saying it. Obesity society. Fat burning when? Look at it. Fat burning at night. At night. And reduce. Are you looking? Hunger swings. Do you want to reduce hunger swings? Right there. Hunger swings. I'm going to repeat it in case you didn't hear it. Early time restricted feeding can increase fat burning at night and reduce Two key factors in losing weight. You guys, if you do this and whole and a whole food um um plant-based whole food diet, there's like no way you cannot not lose weight.

You're going to lose weight. You're going to lose weight. It's almost 100% you're going to lose weight. You cannot not lose weight. If you do this and a whole food plant-based diet, so in early time restricted feeding, people eat their last meal by the midafter afternoon and don't eat again until breakfast the next morning. That's the definition. You're burning fat at night. That's what it says. That's right there. Okay. So, I'm not saying it. understand it. And I'm just telling you again, I'm just look.

Look, that's what's going on here. The fat in your muscles, you're burning it at night when you're Don't you want to do that? I don't know. I'm just saying. Okay, here's another one. Early timerestricted feeding reduces appetite. This isn't just one study, you guys. You see how there's like a lot of studies that show the same thing. Reduces appetite and increases what? Look. Fat oxidation. What does that mean? Burning. Burning. Fat oxidation. Okay. So there's confirmation. Now look look look. Meal frequency and timing are associated with changes in body mass index in Adventist health study.

Oo, this is cool. I just want to look just want to read it for you. Adventist health study 2. It showed I'm just going to go down to the results. It shows a subjects who ate one or two meals. I recommend two, not one, had a reduction in body mass index per year. And they tell you how much blah blah blah compared to those who ate three. In other words, those who ate two lost more weight. Um, da da da da. Okay, I'm going to go straight to breakfast eaters experience a decreased body mass index compared to breakfast skippers.

Don't skip breakfast. Relative to subjects who ate their largest meal at dinner, those who consume breakfast as their largest meal experience a significant decreased BMI. Eat your largest meal for breakfast. Conclusion. Our results suggest that in a relatively healthy and relatively healthy adults eating less frequently, not more frequently, less frequently. No snacking. Did you hear no snacking? Consuming breakfast and eating the largest meal in the morning may be effective methods for preventing long-term weight gain.

eating breakfast and lunch five to six hours apart and making the overnight fast last 18 or 19 hours may be useful practical strategy it's just the study I'm not saying it the study showed it okay this was health study adventist health study in other words this is people who lived in Luminda mostly but other adventists in California and other parts in the country now this study Just to show you, okay, this is just a comparison. This study also studied early time or not not early but also did the timerestricted eating.

But in this study, the people started eating at noon. This is just for comparison you guys. In this study, the people started eating at noon and finished eating at 8. And what were their results? not more effective in weight loss with this kind of schedule. No more effective in weight loss than eating throughout the day. They didn't find anything. In other words, wasn't effective. Why? Because it's not in harmony with the circadian rhythm, you guys. This is not how our body is made up. This is not in harmony with how we are designed.

Our circadian rhythm is made so that we can eat early. In fact, look at this study. It says circadian clock circadian rhythm is the rhythm of day and night. This is how God designed us to eat earlier. This is why this study says circadian rock uh clock and insulin resistance. And if you go down uh further down the bottom, it says glucose tolerance is higher in the morning. Your body processes the food better in the morning than in the evening. So whatever you eat in the evening is going to make your glucose go up, but whatever you eat earlier in the day, you can process it better.

That's what it says right here. That's what our bodies are designed to eat earlier. Your glucose tolerance is better earlier. That's what it's showing. Now, one more thing I wanted to show you about circadian rhythm, meaning day and night, light and darkness. And this is what I was telling you about Dr. Schwelt. I think he showed this probably he showed this because I think I've seen it from him. But exposure to sunlight reduces glucose levels and it has to do with your mitochondria which are the little furnaces inside of the cell.

These are little organels inside of the cell that basically burn energy. Well, they work better when we expose oursel to sunlight. But here is talking about the infrared energy from the sun. So, you don't even have to expose your uh skin necessarily to the ultraviolet rays. We're not talking about getting uh burned necessarily by the sun. It's just getting the warmth. You can even have your sleeves all the way down. You don't even have to expose the skin. Just the warmth. And in fact, now they even sell these red lights.

And now everybody's talking about the red lights. These are the mitochondria, by the way. The little thingies you see those are these are the muscle cells, of course. But the mitochondria are those little furnaces inside the organels that use up that make energy. But now you see red light therapy. Everybody's doing red light therapy and you have to buy these lights. You don't have to buy the lights, you guys. The sun gives you the infrared light uh the infrared uh uh energy. It comes from the sun.

All you have to do is get out into outside basically into the the light of the sun and just be outside for a few minutes. Just feel the warmth of the sun. That's all. That's it. And you get the same benefits of the red light therapy. And it says right here, significantly improve blood sugar levels. It's all over the place. Just Google it or whatever other engine uh search engine. Okay. The last thing I want to mention is the microbiota, which as you know is the healthy uh flora, the healthy microbes in the gut.

And now we know how important they are. We used to think bacteria were all bad. Now we know that we can't live without it. Actually, we need the healthy bacteria in our gut. And for that, we need to feed it. And look, look at what this says. It says right here that diabetics in general, their microbiota is way less healthy. In fact, it says that right here that people with diabetes have different uh type or different microbiota than healthy people. And the early differences in microbiota composition uh are can be diagnostic markers in fact for people with type 2 diabetes.

The differences in composition of species and microorganisms in the gut and environmental factors may predict an individual's evolution towards obesity and diabetes since childhood. I that's kind of scary. So whatever we do even since childhood can put us at higher risk. Uh you know and that could be what we're exposed to even from birth. In fact, in a Mediterranean diet, which is a very planttheavy diet, that's what one of the um one of the things about the Mediterranean diet that you eat a lot of beans, you eat a lot of vegetables.

It says right here, "Our results suggest that long-term consumption of the Mediterranean diet uh and the low-fat high that's what LH uh LFHCC that's a lowfat high complex carbohydrate diet exert a positive effect in the development of type 2 diabetes by different specific changes in the gut microbiota increasing the abundance of these different types of really good um micro micro ropes basically that make your microbiota healthier because they have more fiber. That's what feeds your microbiota. The fiber uh it says right here the consumption of resistant starch that's a type of starch but it actually works like fiber.

You don't digest this kind of starch and improves insulin sensitivity. So where do you find this kind of starch resistant starch? Do you know? Do you know where this starch is found? You want to know? Well, look. These are foods that have resistant starch. Did you know? So, a lot of people asked me this at camp meeting last week, and in fact, I said yes, it's true. You can boil potatoes and rice. Same thing with rice. You can boil the potatoes. You can boil the rice and let them cool down. Did you know this?

Cool them down and the amount of resistant starch goes up and then you warm them up and then they actually have more resistant starch. I don't know if you knew this, but it is true. Oh, somebody says, "Besides praying, how how can I help a diabetic that doesn't want to follow a correct diet?" Well, I mean, you can share some of this information because you know what? You can start moving them along that spectrum, those steps of change. Sometimes people are in the pre-contemplated, what's called the pre-contemplated stage, and they don't want to hear anything.

And but the more they hear, maybe they're slowly, you don't even realize, but slowly slowly they're start contemplating making those changes. So the more the more the more you you and actually if they see you as a model for those changes the better. So and actually it doesn't have good nutrition doesn't do any good exercise you can maybe share some kind of uh good uh dish with them. Maybe bring them some healthy cookie or something like that. I don't know. I'm just making up things. bring uh share shared them a a link to or maybe even watch it with them like a good documentary, Forks Over Nights, What the Health, one of those really life-changing documentaries, if they're open to it, because sometimes just watching one of those things can change somebody's life.

You would you would be surprised. People sometimes just watching one of those things, they're like, "Wow, this is it. I'm changing my life." Something like that. uh watching you make those uh changes sometimes just being a role model for people. So did you eat say eat those cold? No, you let them cool. The starches in those will change. So the from regular starch to resistant starch and then you can actually heat them up and the resistant starch will uh will still be there. So just by letting them cool down once, it will then change the composition of the resist of the starches.

So you could warm them up again, but the potatoes and the rice can actually change the composition. Uh so these are some of the uh sources of resistant starch. As you can see, green bananas, lentils, beans. Um yeah, you're welcome, Reuben. Yeah, no problem. So again, see these are some uh but you can of course Google this um and you can get more ideas of sources of resistant starch. But you probably have also heard of probiotics and probiotics are the actual micro uh microbes, right? The actual good bacteria.

Prebiotics are the food that actually feeds the good bacteria. And I'll tell you what, they have found some they've done some studies that have found that probiotics don't always work, especially the supplements. Some for some people they take the probiotics, they don't stick. And they were doing a lot of uh you know the giving probiotics especially for people who take antibiotics and they were even giving the um you know like prescription pro uh probiotics for people and not always work. They don't always work, but I'll tell you what, prebiotics will most likely work because you will start feeding the little microbes again and they can recolonize uh your gut if you're having to take antibiotics.

Hopefully, you won't have to do that. But even if you have a lot of gut issues, there's a lot of people with uh IBS, the irritable bowel syndrome, a lot of people with other types of gut issues. A lot of that has to do with something called disbiosis, meaning your gut bacteria is not healthy. You know that gut bacteria uh issues start from birth. In fact, if you have been b uh if you were born by C-section, you already started off at a disadvantage because babies that are born through the birth canal, they get inoculated with the mother's bacteria through the birth canal.

So, babies who don't go through that are already at a disadvantage. Not that they can't recover, but the babies born through regular vaginal birth already get at the advantage of being inoculated with the moms. um bacteria going through the birth canal. also being breastfed advantage because they're getting you know some of the u advantages of being breastfed you know the good bacteria the formula not so of course once they start eating solid food vegetables the fruits the foods with uh fiber if the babies are eating you know the baby food the chicken or whatever no fiber and of course then they start eating the uh junk food, forget it.

So all of this, you know, the the the people who are the who are raised on nothing but meat and potatoes are going to have very different gut bacteria that the people who are raised on beans and vegetables. Okay? So this could be a lifelong issue for a lot of people. And so this can lead to a lifelong problem called disbiosis. And so this can lead to lifelong gut issues. Uh IBS being one of them. IBD uh can be inflammatory bowel disease such as Crohn's disease can be even even more serious as you probably know.

So are fermented foods good for us to eat? Yes. Uh I would say yes. But don't rely on that. just the only source of good gut health. I would say that could be a good source of probiotics. But don't rely on it as and I would say as long as they're non-dairy. So right here you have non-dairy yogurt for instance. I wouldn't do dairy yogurt just because you would be putting too many animal proteins in the in the body. I would prefer non-dairy with no sugar. So, as as long as they are like the ones you see right here, uh these are good sources.

The kimchi, as long as it doesn't have too much salt, that kind of thing. So, make sure you're looking for the healthy uh versions of these probiotic foods. But what I also want to make sure is that I mentioned that you also want to make sure you're eating more prebiotics because as long as you're feeding the good bacteria, you can probably solve the disbiosis problem and you are going to always be feeding the good bacteria and that's better. How do you eat tempe? Excellent question. I always put it on a pan without oil or you can actually put it in the oven or air fryer with some uh seasonings like a little bit of soy sauce or bra uh liquids aminos that's even better.

Um but whatever seasonings you want and uh and I eat it with uh brown you can eat it brown rice you can eat it with some kind of noodles uh vegetables. It's very similar to tofu. You can prepare it with very similar to tofu and stir fry it. I I never use oil. I use it with other things, but very similar to tofu. That's what I would say. It's very delicious, actually. Very, very delicious. Uh so, I highly recommend it. Okay, you guys. But this is why I recommend eat a whole food plant-based diet.

As long as you're eating a whole food plant-based diet, you will be eating a lot of the fibers, a lot of the prebiotics, a lot of the resistant starches, and naturally getting enough fiber. Most people are fiber deficient. When people ask you, "Where do you get your protein?" If you're like eating a vegetarian or, you know, whole plant-based diet and people ask you, "Where do you get your protein?" you go ahead and ask them, "Well, where do you get your fiber?" Because you're probably fiber deficient.

The average fiber intake in this country is like 15 grams a day, and most people need like 30 to 35. And to be healthy, you mo you should be getting more like 50 grams. I get like 50 or 60 grams a day most times. Uh so most people are going to be very short of that. So when people ask you, "Where do you get your proteins?" You just answer, "Where do you get your fiber?" And that's it. you'll be you'll be uh you'll be better. So, um I'm going to give you my website again because as you know I have a 10day challenge in my website health4day.net.

I want to tell you guys that I just finished a round in my work for people who did 10 days of whole food plant-based diet. And I'm going to tell you, a lot of people don't do it 100%. Um, and even so, a lot of people follow it like 90 to 95%. And I had, for instance, one, I'm not going to give you the real names, okay? But I had a person whose glucose I have the paper right here, but I'm not going to give you the right the name for privacy, but I had a lady and she's from church. She started off with 137.

She's been diabetic for years. She started off with glucose at 137 and last Sunday was the last day of our 10day challenge. She finished with 118. She's below the glucose threshold. So, she is now in the pre-diabetes range as opposed to diabetes. And her blood pressure went from 133 over 79 to 122 over 75. and she lost four pounds. Her cholesterol was already good when she went from 153 to 126. That's wonderful. And her LDL was okay. It was above 70. Since she's a diabetic, she should have been below uh below 70.

So, she was at 88 and now she's at 63, you guys. So, she's wonderful. So, that's in 10 days. Okay. We have another person who's um let's see triglycerides way too high. They were at 214 and in 10 days they lowered it to 141. That you want to be below 150. So now perfect triglycerides. All right. We had one person whose cholesterol was 210 and in 10 days they lowered it to 188 you guys. And their LDL was 120, they lowered it to 101. So, they're almost there. They should be below 100, but 101, hey, they're they're pretty darn close.

So, that's wonderful. And they lost two pounds. Uh, we have a a person whose cholesterol was 131. Now, they're below 100. So, our our machine doesn't even doesn't even measure it because we have a a small little machine that below 100 doesn't even it doesn't register. And their uh blood pressure was pretty high because they're um hypertensive. So, it was 143 over 81. Now we're at 133 over 79. Woohoo. So no longer hypertensive. Uh cholesterol, this other person 204. Now they're 173. Their LDL, you guys watch.

Or here actually listen to me. Their LDL 121. That's so high. You definitely need a statin. Now it's 50. 50. Oh my goodness. So that's just wonderful. That that's just just very very good. Um this person had a glucose of 132 to start to end 104. 132 104 is another diabetic to pre-diabetic. Wow. Okay. This is the last one I wanted to share with you. The total cholesterol went from 169 to 145. So 169 is not high but it went down even lower. The triglycerides were went from 146 to 129. Those were all very good.

Um so everything is pretty good in this person. The pre blood pressure was 123 over 70 78 to 104 over 66. I mean, this is this is already a kind of healthy person who went from kind of healthy to super healthy. And their uh weight has been consistently going down. So, this person's like the third time they do this program. So, this time their weight went from 220 to 218. So, they lost another two pounds. It's like the third time they do the program. So, I mean, they've just been improving uh very very much.

Okay. Okay, so last person uh cholesterol went from 182 to 177, LDL 119 to 113. So just small uh drop a drop nonetheless. Uh glucose 103 to 100. So small drop, but blood pressure 143 over 85 to 128 over 77. And um she lost two pounds. So So anyway, we have a lot of cases like that every time. So what I wanted to tell you is that in 10 days you can do it. So you can um download the 10day challenge also from this website health fortoday.net and it is right here. 10day challenge. Just go in there. I don't even ask you for your uh email, nothing.

Just download the PDF right there. Boom. 10day challenge. Daniel Daniel challenge. By the way, also if there's anyone who uh is Spanish speaking, I never say it forget to say it, but I do have a Spanish website and there it is. Salutaro.com and it's the whole thing is also available in Spanish. All right, so we're out of time. I am going to uh pray you guys. Sorry, there's no more time for uh questions, but we've been answering them all along. So, I'm going to pray. I'm going to tell you when is our next program, and I'm going to talk about building better habits, how to do it, and how to increase um uh how to increase self uh control.

And our next program is August 19th. Okay? And I think you're going to have a program, Dr. Schwelt, next week. Don't miss it. It's going to be great. Okay. Uh, does your cookbook come in English? Yes, I have a cookbook in English. Just look it up under my name on Amazon. And I you might be able to go into my website and get a direct link to my Amazon cookbook from my website. Uh, and if I don't have that, I should add it. So, I'll add it this week if I haven't added it, but it's on Amazon. So yes, my cookbook is in English.

So let's pray you guys. Let's finish with a nice prayer. Okay. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for everything you give us. All your blessings are new every day. And we ask you to forgive us because sometimes we don't take proper care of our bodies. And we just ask you to forgive us and to make us new creatures and give us wisdom and understanding in your Holy Spirit so that we can have self-control so we can have the fruit of your Holy Spirit in us. and give us the strength and the wisdom and the ability to take proper care of this body temple and also to what we have learned to also share it with other people so that other people may get to know you better to know that you are our maker and our savior and our healer.

Help us to be uh good representatives of you wherever we go to take this message of healing everywhere. Um and to take it to all people that we may know so that we may be your ambassadors wherever we go. And be with us rest of this day and the rest of this week. and uh be with every single person who is connected tonight and who will watch this program in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you again you guys. Thank you everyone who has connected and uh we ask you to like this video to share it to uh subscribe to this channel to turn on your notifications and to connect tomorrow.

There's more programming on Wednesdays and on Sabbath, of course. So, make sure you are always notified when the next program is coming up. So, thank you so much again. Thank you for everything uh that that you guys do for us and thank you for sharing our programs and Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you again. Thank you for being with us and God bless you and please share this program. Thank you again you guys.