Hello. I think we are on already. Um I am we have started and I have to apologize for being late and I'll tell you why I'm I was late. I just walked in the house. I was at camp meeting and um and I left and there was so much traffic on the way here instead of half an hour. The drive was 1 hour. I was at camp meeting at SoCal. I am in central California and my presentation is right before Pastor Ivor's presentation. Uh so yesterday and today um we're doing presentations all week actually and yesterday I got to see Pastor Ivor and Atante and today I got to see Pastor Ivor not for very long though barely just to say hi and I have to say it's been such a blessing.

It's been such a blessing. So, we're doing presentations all week long, Monday through Fridays. And I even told Pastor Ivory yesterday because I think it's so providential that my presentation is at 2 p.m. His presentation is at 400 p.m. So, it's backto back same exact room uh almost exact same people. Of course, his presentation has a lot more people. My presentation is at the same time as many others, but his presentation is like by himself. Nobody else is doing presentations at that time. So it's really wonderful.

Uh but his my yesterday especially I got to talk about Daniel one and just this providential he came in and talked about Daniel 2 and then 7 8 9 10 or 11 and 12. I mean this was all just very very providential. It was such a huge blessing. This has been so wonderful at camp meeting. So, I'm just very very blessed. I'm very blessed with be with you today. As I promised, uh, the last two times we've been talking about diabetes. This is a four-part series. And today we're doing part three all about exercise.

What is the best exercise for not only people with diabetes and pre-diabetes but everyone who wants to prevent those conditions and all the other metabolic diseases that are associated with diabetes, pre-diabetes and everything that is associated. Okay, but before we get started as always we need to pray. Let's not forget about that very important part. So let's have a word of prayer. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for all the blessings you give us that we just do not deserve. Thank you for your love.

Thank you for your word and especially thank you today. We want to thank you for the health message you have given us. That is such a blessing for us, for our health, for our bodies. And we ask you to be with us today that the technology works and that uh everyone who is connected today and that who will be connected and that who will see this program uh later maybe uh that will be blessed by it and that everyone um who is blessed by it will also share it so that other people may learn not only how to take care of their bodies but also about you who is our maker, our healer.

our God. Thank you so much for everything and everything we pray and ask in your name. Amen. Okay friends, so we are talking again about reversing and preventing diabetes, pre-diabetes and all the conditions that are related to it. And as we have said in the last two presentations, the conditions that are uh related to it have to do with the root cause. I hope everyone remembers what the root cause is. Uh and it has to do with I hope you remember the root cause is insulin resistance. If you don't remember or if you don't know because it's the first time you connect, you can go back to part one and part two of this series and also to the first two true health Tuesday that I did and it was called 10 days to better health and that's where I go really deep into this topic of insulin resistance.

Now I want to as always say that this presentation is not meant to be medical advice. It's meant to be educational. Okay? So this is for your knowledge, for your education. And also as always, my spiritual disclaimer is that everything that I teach, everything that I present will always be or I try at least to be in harmony with the Bible and the spirit of prophecy. I try. If not, let me know. But I try to always present everything in accordance and in harmony with the Bible and the spirit of prophecy.

And that is in Isaiah 8:20. It says to the law and the testimony. If they do not speak according to this word is because there's no life, no light in them. And I always repeat this because there might be people today who have not seen my past presentations. And the other thing is that I always try to present things that have a solid scientific evidence because the spirit of prophecy has taught us the importance of science. The knowledge of science, a knowledge of science of all kinds is power and advanced science shall be taught in our schools as preparation for the work that is to precede the closing scenes of Earth's history.

I think we are witnessing right now. the closing scenes of earth history. I don't know if you believe that but I do. A practical knowledge of the science of human life is necessary in order to glorify God in our bodies. Ah yeah. What is the best diet? Thank you Wendy for your question. What is the diet best diet for neuropathy? That's an excellent question. If neuropathy is caused by diabetes, it would be the diet for diabetes for reversing uh diabetes. And that is the diet that we talked about two weeks ago, presentation number two in this four-part series.

Um, and that is the whole food plant-based diet. But to be quite honest with you, the presentation that I did at 2 p.m. at camp meeting, I said the exact same thing that I'm going to tell you right now. The best diet for every single human being is the whole food plant-based diet. And I'll tell you why. Is the diet that is found in Genesis 1:29. And that is the diet designed by God for us. God is the maker of our bodies. This is my belief. I hope that is also your belief. And just like when you buy a new truck, let's say you go to the dealer, buy a truck, and let's say you forgot whether you're supposed to put gas or diesel.

Let's you you're probably not going to ever forget because you buy and you know what you're getting, right? But let's say you forgot. So you get home. Oh, oops. What am I supposed to put? Okay. Well, you get the manual out of the glove compartment, most likely. Open up the manual. Maybe page 129. It says right there. I'm just making it up, right? But you look up where what kind of uh what kind of fuel am I supposed to put in this truck? Oh, okay. This is a diesel truck. I'm going to go to the gas station and look up where the diesel is.

Okay, here's the diesel. I'm going to put diesel in my truck because what happens if I put gas in a diesel truck? It's going to break down. It's not going to work. Now the thing about it is God made our bodies so resilient, so wonderfully made that we can put the wrong fuel for a while and it'll continue to work for a while but not forever. It will start to break down sooner or later. The correct fuel is told to us in page one, page one of the manual. You know which manual I'm talking about, right?

The Bible. Unless it's large print, it might be page two. But most likely will be page one because it's chapter one, book one, Genesis 129 says right there which diet God gave us. And it is a plantbased diet. God made our bodies to be plants. We're not carnivores. I was telling the group at 2 o'clock at camp meeting that keto is not even the thing anymore. Now it's carnivores. Carnivore diet. It used to be five even five years ago is fringy. Fringy. You guys, have you heard of the carnivore diet?

By the way, how many of you have heard of carnivore diet? My goodness, there's so many people pushing it. The the group I was talking to, there's probably like 50 at least 50 people, maybe more. So many of them had heard of the carnivore diet. It's becoming mainstream. Even within the church, there's people doing it. Carnivore. We're talking people who are eating nothing but meat. We are not carnivores. Our bodies are not meant to eat meat. We're not even omnivores. I'm serious about this. I You know how I know this?

When I had a a golden retriever, now I don't. She passed away. She was 12. No, she was almost 15 when she passed away. You know what? My golden retriever, you know who gave it to me? Pastor Ivor, I'm not kidding. Okay. She lived to be almost 15. I I got the I got her from them. Anyway, when I had her, we would I would take her out for walks and sometime we lived in, you know, kind of ruralish area. Sometimes there'd be dead deer on the road. Roadkill. You know what she would like to do when there was dead deer on the road?

You know what she wanted to do? She wanted to go sniff the dead road the roadkill the dead deer. How many of you if you see dead deer or dead anything want to go sniff it? Put a one in the chat. If you like to go sniff roadkill. There's going to be zero ones in the chat. No once. I know. Our instincts are completely against seeing dead bodies, dead animals. We are grossed out by that because we are not carnivores. We're not even omnivores. Dogs are omnivores. So are bears. They eat berries and they eat fish.

Oh, there's a Valerie. You like roadkill, Valerie? Maybe you misunderstood me. That's okay. What I want to say is that humans are not okay. Got you. You know what I mean? You're getting my point. I think I hope you are. Humans are not even omnivores. We are cultural omnivores. What do I mean by that? We have taught ourselves to eat meat. But what how do we eat it? We have to cook it. How many animals in nature cook their meat? How many animals in nature put barbecue sauce in their meat? How many animals in nature put it between buns, cut it up in steaks, put it on a barbecue or whatever, grill it?

None. How do they eat it in nature? with the fur, with the nerves, with feathers, with whatever blood. That's how animals, even omnivores, eat it. Both carnivores and omnivores have the same teeth. They're canines. See, people who say they they think they eat meat naturally or whatever. Oh, look at my canines. Oh, okay. Look at your canines and then look at your cat and compare your canines with your cat. They're not even close. Okay, that was a really big digress. Sorry about that. But that was a good question.

A good question. Thank you, Wendy. All right, I'm going to skip this. God wants us to have common sense. See, I just used common sense, you guys, to answer Wendy's question. All right, today's topic is diabetes again and pre-diabetes which are completely reversible uh or pre-diabetes is completely reversible and so is insulin resistance. What we have found in uh in the research basically is that type two is to type two diabetes I mean is reversible in probably above 80% of the cases not 100% of the cases and the reason why is because in some people their pancreas will eventually stop working properly after many many years of overproducing insulin I don't know if you remember this when we talked about insulin resistance And we said that people who have insulin resistance sometimes start producing a lot of insulin to compensate for the fact that the insulin is not working properly.

Therefore, their glucose levels start to go up and their pancreas starts to respond to that by producing too much insulin. And what happens is after many many years of overworking the pancreas, sometimes that pancreas eventually stops working properly. And so some for some people that's an irreversible condition. The pancreas is kind of um damaged. So there might be some people who might not be able to reverse it completely, but they still could improve. Therefore, we can always improve. So lifestyle changes will always always be worth doing.

Now in order to do that we need to then uh go to the root cause. Now as I showed you before some people will say and I know this because some people have told me oh wait a minute my doctor said type two diabetes cannot be cured. Doctors have told me that. Honestly I've heard this from medical doctors. But it's not their fault you guys. This is what they were taught. So, of course, they're going to say that. That's what they were taught. And it's because that's what the the research told them, too.

So, what I say to people who say this is, well, the new research shows that type two is actually reversible. Because look, this paper right here that I'm showing you is a consensus statement from the American Diabetes Association. I already showed you this. This is all review. The American Diabetes Association has this consensus statement that says what? Are you looking at the title? How do we define? I'm not saying the word. Good thing I didn't say it. The ADA said it. Cure. I didn't say the word cure.

They said it. They said it. So therefore, that means they're saying they could be cured. They're saying it. So you tell your friends when they tell you, "Oh, well, diabetes cannot be cured." Well, the ADA said it can't. You show them this paper. That way you say, "Hey, the ADA said it." Okay. Not in 100% of the cases, but some cases. Thank you for from joining us from Canada. Awesome. Thank you, Andrea. Okay. So, what as I said, we need to go to the root cause. The root cause is insulin resistance.

This is important to mention because it's not only the root cause of diabetes and pre-diabetes but also all the complications. Remember the complications all the complications. See these these are the complications. There's cancer you guys. There's Alzheimer's you guys. There's erectile dysfunction. PCOS. You know what that is, right? Polycystic ovarian syndrome. There's neuropathy. Somebody asked about neuropathy. Who was it? Wendy. There's neuropathy right there too. And there's all these other things.

You guys look at the the chart. There's all these things. Atherosclerosis obviously uh hypertension. These things can happen without the diabetes. That's why I'm mentioning them because you might not even have diabetes. You might never have diabetes and have these. They have the same root cause. You have to go to the root cause. That's why the same diet works for everything. And people ask me, what should I do if I have hypertension? This the same the same the same diet that works for everything works because it's the same thing.

you address this. What should I do for PCOS? The same thing. What should I do for cancer? Same thing. What should I do for neuropathy? Same thing. It's the same diet. It works for everything because they're all connected. Because God's diet works for everything. Okay. So, the key number one for reversing diabetes and pre-diabetes, we already mentioned it. It was diet. We talked about it two weeks ago, so go back and watch it if you haven't. I'm not going to repeat it because today we have to talk about key number two.

Key number two is physical activity. And the reason why I'm going to talk about it today is because most people actually do not understand this. If I go to a church or an audience for any other audience for that matter, actually I do this at my work. Most people don't even are not Adventists actually at my work and I ask the same question. People answer the same way. What's the best exercise for diabetes? What do you think people say when I say what's the best exercise for diabetes or for losing weight, for hypertension, for heart disease, for this and that blah blah blah.

What do you think people say? Because they say the same thing all the time. Well, similar actually. Some people might say other similar things, but the most common answer is starts with a W. Where do you think it is? Walking. And it's true. I'm not saying walking is not good. Walking is the best as far as cardiovascular disease. And I'll tell you why. is this is the most accessible uh kind of exercise for everyone. You do not need a gym membership. You don't need uh any special equipment. And I mean you could technically walk without shoes.

Yes, Tara, you are absolutely correct. Walking it's free. It's accessible to everyone unless you're in a wheelchair. Okay, maybe not in that case, but for most other people, it is accessible. You might be able to walk without shoes. I was going to say, but okay, if you have shoes, it's better. So, most people can do it, but there's more to it. Okay, there actually is more to it. So also I want to mention oh uh producer can you move my um picture up so I can actually read it or else I can just open the actual uh the actual thing.

Let me just read it from my Okay. It says according to experts exercise provides benefit for endothelial function. How many of you know the word endothelial? Endothelial tissue is the lining inside of our arteries and our vessels. So that's very important because that's where the plaque starts to accumulate inside the endothelial lining of the arteries. And so they say should be the first prescription. What the first prescription? Well, along with diet, I would say that's what I would say. Along with diet, exercise should be the first prescription when treating insulin resistance.

Huh? The first prescription. My oh my my oh my. But I would say make sure you get uh medical clearance. Number numero uno. Get medical clearance. Okay. Especially if you are you you are at the age above 40. This is not normal. This is not normal. Tokara says, "Walking is the most easiest." Yes, it is the easiest. It's also the most accessible exercise anyone can do. I agree 100%. This being sedentary is not normal. Is not what our bodies are made for. It's not what our ancestors did. Our bodies are made to move.

Okay? Move as much as possible. Look at what an our ancestors used to do for a living. If we think about it, they didn't have to go to the gym because they did this for a living. Many hours a day. And think about the movements, you guys. The movements that were required for growing food pretty much pretty much the same you would do actually in a in a gym if you think about it. growing food, right? So, they didn't have to go to the gym. They were doing exercise out in the open. So, they were getting the sunlight, the fresh air, and the physical exercise, also the walking.

So, all of this they did not have to pay. Think about cutting wood, the back exercise, the shoulders, the arms. All of this was also building muscle. These ladies, what are they doing? What are they doing? Do you see what they're doing? They're washing their clothes. They're washing the clothes in the river. Think about the movement for washing clothes. Think about that movement. What parts of the body are they moving? They're moving their arms. They're moving their shoulders. Even the back is getting some exercise.

They're not going to the gym, yet they're getting muscular. Are they not getting muscular exercise? And then if they're at the river, think about this. They have to go back home, don't they? They have to carry the clothes back home. Do the clothes weigh more now that they're going back home with their wet clothes. So, think about the fact that they're carrying weightbearing exercise. You guys, no gym involved here. See, so let's think about this. Our ancestors, even people today, if you think about this, in many regions of the world, maybe these ladies are carrying water, food, I don't know.

There's places where people are poor. They don't have access have access to water, which is very very unfortunate. But they're making they're doing more exercise than many of us. Unfortunate. Unfortunately, because some of us are not taking advantage of the fact that we have maybe more time. We have better, you know, life and more opportunities and yet we are not getting the exercise we need to. They're getting some health benefits. Our ancestors were getting the benefits of physical activity without needing to get the gym membership.

Now we need to get the gym membership because we have uh we have engineered our way out of these tasks and some uh jobs today might require some physical activity that's good but I would say even physical activities that have to do with uh jobs today modern jobs like construction maybe even field work might not include enough cardiovascular activity like Takaro was saying the walking. Okay. Well, a person a person who walks in construction might not get enough walking. They might be doing exercise but they might need to add the walking component here.

Okay. So, look at this job right here. Sitting eight hours a day. You guys, you know that they've said the experts are saying that sitting is a risk factor almost as bad at smoking. Have you heard that before? will look it up because that's what the science is showing. Sitting is just as risky for your health as smoking. Sitting and look at all, you know, there's so many jobs that require sitting for hours and hours and hours. So people, what the experts are saying is every 50 minutes or so, 45, 50 minutes, people need to get up and at least walk five minutes, walk around the office, go up a flight of stairs, come back down, do something, go outside, look at the flowers, the trees, something because you need to move those legs.

Some people stand all day like maybe teachers. Okay, that's better than sitting, but you still need to walk. you still need to do some cardiovascular and also some resistance exercise which I will talk about. Okay. So, Takara has heard about what I just said that sitting is bad. Now, we were talking with regards to diet. Oo, some Takara said sitting a lot. See, there's a lot of people who sit too much. I would say even I sometimes sit too much. So, what I have done, I'll tell you what I have done.

Uh, I bought a $300 little walking pad. I guess you would call it a treadmill. Also, $300. It wasn't very much money. And I put it under a desk. I already own the desk. It's a tall desk and I already had it, so I didn't have to buy it. But you can also buy a tall table or desk and put a walking pad if you can afford it. I It only cost me $300. uh bought it online and I use it as a walking desk and uh if you can afford it. Now some people you know don't work at home so might not be able to do it but some people do bring it to work.

So I know some people have these kinds of arrangements at work. Other people don't have a walking thing at home but don't but at least stand at work. They're able to have a standing desk at work. So, Takara says she goes to work on lunch break. That's an excellent idea. Oh, there's a lake. That's even better. My goodness. What? That's That's very nice to have a lake nearby. Oh, how pretty. That's wonderful. Okay, so now we're looking at here at the picture that I showed you before. This is a picture that I showed you representing insulin resistance.

And what we see here is the fat inside the cells. Remember this the fat also called the technical name for this is intrammyiocellular lipids. Remember that intramyiocellular you can look it up you guys. This is the scientific name for it. Fat inside cells intramiocellular lipids which are blocking. So the little stickman that I you know drew there I guess drew as in uh digitally drew I guess. Uh the stigma represents the insulin. The insulin is in charge of putting the glucose inside the cells if you will, but it's blocked by the fat.

Okay? So, this is called So, the uh what I want to say, look at this. Look at this. You guys look at the screen. If you're not looking at the screen now, it's a good time to look at it because this study that I'm showing you literally says literally says that exercise works like insulin. Literally exercise works as insulin. Literally does the same thing. Puts the glucose inside the cells. Wow. So what I recommend you guys, I always tell this to diabetics. What's So okay, I'm going to ask a question.

What is the best time to walk? Trick question. What's the best time to walk? Because people give me all kinds of different answers when I say, "What is the best time of the day to walk?" And I will say there's two different answers for that question. Powerful. Yes. Takara, isn't that powerful? Okay, what's the best time to walk? You guys put in the chat because there's two different answers to that question. I'll tell you what. It depends on whether you have diabetes or not. So, it depends. Okay, Melissa, interesting statement.

Yes. Gotcha. Now, what's the best time to walk? It depends on whether you have diabetes. In the morning and in the evening, says Takara. Oh, you're in the right track right there. I'll tell you what. Anytime, says Hatti. I don't know how you pronounce your name. Hatti. Hottie. Hottie. Hatti or hottie. Okay, never mind. Um, hati. I hope you I'm saying it right. And please forgive me if I'm not. I'll tell you what. If you have if Okay, no. Let's start with don't. If you don't have diabetes, exercise at whatever time you will exercise because it's better to exercise at any time than not exercise at all.

So, Haddie is correct with that. She says anytime or he. I could be it could be a hect. I don't know. I'm sorry. Um, anytime is better than no time at all. So, is absolutely correct. Anytime. But here's a big butt. If you have diabetes, Tara is in the right track. after. Listen to me. Listen. This is a good time to really pay attention. Open your ears as open as you can. exercise after meals. Did you hear that? Exercise when? after meals. Why? The reason is the the reason is the study that you're looking at right now.

Hope you're looking at the screen. Because exercise works like insulin. So what am I talking about? When you eat after dinner, says to car. Yes, that's the best time. Actually, one of the best times because that's when your metabolism is very, very low. it's lowest, right? Your metabolism is actually higher in the morning and it starts to slow down in the evening. So when you eat, if you're diabetic and you eat a meal, your blood sugar starts to go up immediately. It reaches a peak at around 45 minutes after the meal.

And if you're diabetic, that peak will probably be higher than normal. But if you finish the meal, put down the fork, and instead of sitting in a couch, now if you work, this will might not be possible. But let's say you don't work or you have the ability, you have some flexibility in your uh schedule. If you have the ability to after eating, even if it's 10 minutes, listen to me, even if it's a 10-minute walk, if it's brisk especially, but even if you can't do a brisk walk, even if it's five minute, whatever walk you can do, okay?

If you go for a five minute walk, 10 minutes better, 15 minutes is best, of course. If you go for a walk immediately after finishing that meal, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and if you can only do one, dinner would be best. Like Takara says, if you go for that walk, that peak will never be as high because you just went for that walk and that exercise walk worked just like insulin. You see what I'm saying? So, some of that glucose, you see what it says right there? glucose uptake, meaning the exercise opened up those channels to put that glucose inside the cell just like insulin.

What a wonderful thing this is. God is so wonderful. God has given us true remedies. That statement in ministry of healing when it lists all eight principles of health after listing all eight of them it says these are the true t r u e true remedies exercise is one of them it works just like insulin you guys it puts the glucose right into your cells isn't that wonderful I don't know how many if you want to say amen feel free put it in the chat big amen all capital letters Because this is amazing.

Tell all your friends about this. Insulin spikes quickly at to its peak after a big meal especially. Absolutely. So go for that walk. So if you have the time to do 20 minutes, all the better. If you have do if you can do 30 minutes, all the better. But okay, if you're a diabetic, what's better to walk? to walk one hour or three times 15 minutes each after a meal. I would pick 15 minutes each after a meal. Amen. Amen. Amen. I'm getting all the amens. Thank you you guys. Thank you you guys. Exercise is a free natural medicine.

Yes, absolutely. All eight of them. And exercise is a big one. So this is what I want to uh emphasize today. How exercise is medicine. Food is medicine. Exercise is medicine too. You guys, all eight of them are. But I don't think people realize how wonderful these things is. So I I'm showing you the inside of a cell. You see the inside of this cell? The little thing right here down at the bottom with a it looks like a bean with a wiggly thing inside. Looks like a bean. Look at it. Right at the bottom at the edge.

It's like like a little bean with something inside. It's that's called the mitochondria. Okay. Yes. three 15 minute uh walks are better. Yes, absolutely. But what I want to show you right here, the cell, the inside thing inside the cell is called a mitochondria. Mitochondria. Just remember that because um the mitochondria are what produce the energy for the muscles to work. So what I'm showing you here are muscle cells. And it also shows the mitochondria right here on the left. These mitochondria are energy production uh furnaces if you will.

These are the little organels inside the cells that produce the energy in muscle cells and all cells really. But what I'm showing you here are muscle cells. And I the reason why I'm showing you all of this is because look at this study. Look at this study. Well, you can see in the title, restoration. See, restoration. Oh, you know what? I told you I was at camp meeting today. And the theme. Wow. This is just providential. The theme of camp meeting this year, restore. The word, just the word restore.

They're talking about spiritually, right? Restor restoration spiritually. how God can restore us in so many ways. And here it says restoration also. I'm just making the connection here because the the true remedies God has given us restore us physically. God wants to restore us in all ways. Physically, spiritually, mentally, emotionally, in every single way, God cares for us because we are whole beings. He cares for us in every single way. Anyway, digress. I digress. Okay. Restoration of muscle mitochondrial function.

Mitochondrial function and metabolic flexibility in type 2 diabetes by what? training. Exercise training is paralleled by increased myiocellular fat storage and improved insulin sensitivity. Do you see this? What's going on here? Exercise is improving your insulin sensitivity. That's what I want to that's the main point right here. How exercise works to improve insulin sensitivity by improving restoring mitochondrial function. In other words, those little furnaces inside the cell are starting to work properly, improving, burning the energy more uh properly, more efficiently, and just more working properly.

That's the name of your ministry, Takara. Is it for Zion? VI or for Zion? Restored Ministry. I love it. Love it. Love it. I'm just making so many connections today. So wonderful. This is awesome. Okay, so I showed you this before. all the fat. You see the top uh picture that's normal, but the bottom you the bottom picture what we're seeing here is all the fat. The atapose tissue is like kind of more like the visible fat, right? So adapose tissue, the love handles if you will, that's visible fat, especially the the subcutaneous fat because you see it if you look at yourself in the mirror is right there.

But the intrammyiocellular lipid, the ones on the right, right? So that we're zooming in, if you will, into the muscle cells. That's the kind of fat that produces the insulin resistance. They want the fat inside the cell, the droplets inside the cell. That's what's producing the insulin resistance. I think I showed you this before, so I'm just reviewing here. Uh, when are you Okay, so I'm I'm being asked the question. When are you starting a plant-based eating plan group? Well, at work, we just started Sunday.

It's a Spanish group, though. I'm going to start a group uh in English in Santa Cruz in August 17th. This is all uh in Santa Cruz County though. But you know what? I'm throwing you guys a a challenge out there because guess what? This could be health ministry, you guys. And I know you're starting a uh evangelism school. And health is evangelism. I can show you because I've done this many many times. There's presentations that I've done on health evangelism. And Ellen and Ellen White, Sister White says that health is evangelism.

In fact, she calls it health evangelism. She uses that term you guys health evangelism because she says that there will come a time when this is the kind of evangelism we'll be we'll be using. Jesus healed more than he preached. And he sent his disciples. He said, "Heal the sick first and then tell them the kingdom of God is has come." So heal the sick and then preach the gospel. This is evangelism. So I throw the challenge at you guys to do health evangelism where you are. You can partner with the local church.

That's what we have done here. We have partnered with the local SDA church. We bring in people that are non-Athenist to do our 10day program. And you can use I give you full permission to use the PDF in my website. Some of you probably have already downloaded it. It's the Daniel challenge 10day program. You can use it, use it freely or make your own if you want. Use a whole food plant-based diet. You can even get the devices to do biometric testing if you want. How I learned about these biometric testing devices.

When we used to do health clinics at our church before COVID, we used to do dental clinics and we used to do vision clinics. This is all health evangelism. Also, we used to do these clinics at our churches and we used to do health screening along with the dental and vision services. That's how I learned about these little devices. Now, they're a little bit expensive, but there's cheaper ones, too. So, you can if you want. Now, I would uh recommend that you have nurses or MAS, medical assistants, somebody who has some kind of license to do the poking of blood because this require you know a little bit of of a blood sample.

and do biometrics or just take their blood pressure, their weight, whatever. Or you don't have to do anything. Just do the 10-day program at you can partner with a church or you can, you know, rent a hall or you can ask a nonprofit. You can do it at the library. You can do so many things. You can do it at home, at your house. There's so many ways to do it. You can do it online. You can do a Facebook group, a WhatsApp group. There's so many ways to do it. Invite your friends, co-workers, uh friends from school, neighbors, family members.

Do it. This is This is I even made a calendar for churches. you I can send it to you if you want but basically a 12 month calendar for churches to do one month because I heard this from Fred uh Hardinch who used to work at uh the um general conference he's retired now but he basically used to say go to churches and say even if you do a once a month program at your church even if it's just a cooking class at your church but do it every month because the consistency is the key that's health evangelism invite your neighbors to your cooking class at the at your church.

Just do a cooking class. That's it. But have your little, you know, I don't know, steps to Christ. Have some little magazines. Have something there. Have something that introduces people to Jesus. You don't have to push it. Just do a cooking class. Have a prayer. Tell them that why you do this. Tell them why you do this. Because our body is a temple. That's it. That's all you have to say. Our body is a temple of the Holy Spirit. We believe in this. We believe that God gave us this diet because we believe in God.

Boom. That's it. That this is how why did Jesus heal? Because this is what opens people's minds to the gospel. Once you heal them, they're open. That's what Jesus did, right? Once he healed them, he opened their minds to accept the gospel. That's what that's why the health message is also for not just for us but to share. Anyway, I digress. See how much I digress. Sorry about this, but I think this is important. I really really do. All right. So, I have been accepted. Awesome. Takara, wonderful.

Health evangelism is the right arm. Thank you for for reminding us of that. Yes, it is the right arm. It needs to be restored just like that. uh story in the Bible of the of the man with the the right the arm that was uh that was not well and Jesus said extend the hand the right and it was restored the right arm of the third a or the the three angels messages the first angel's message has the health message in it glorify God how do we glorify God how how do we glorify God by keeping our bodies healthy.

Anyway, digress. Okay, I'm just going to skip some of these things very quickly because this one just basically says the same thing what we said before. I'm going to skip this, you guys. Uh because you can look up this, take a P, just look it up later. Look up the uh references and you see what it's saying. Okay, it's basically saying that people who are sedentary have a lot more intramiocellular fat in their cells. That's basically what it's saying. But when you are more active, you don't. What kind of exercise is best for diabetics?

We already said walking, cardiovascular activity. Christ healed them and then he beckoned them to come and follow me. She got it basically. That's it. That's the best way best way to summarize it. Thank you, Takara. What kinds of exercise are best for diabetics? Okay. So, we're going to talk about what the recommendations are for diabetics. And rem remember guys, when we say diabetics, we really mean anybody who has any metabolic diseases, okay? Because they're all connected. So, when we say diabetics, fatty liver, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and just about every other thing because they're all connected.

So, diabetic is just a word to include everybody else. The recommendations are these are the minimum. These are just the minimum. Okay, look at this. 150 minutes of cardiovascular activity. How much is 150 minutes? Two and a half hours. Not a day. A week. Okay. A week. Plus, you see what it says also? Not just walking. Well, okay. Okay, cardiovascular could be walking, but also could be other things. It could be riding a bike. It could be jogging, I guess. It could be also do the elliptical machine, maybe at the gym.

It could be swimming. That's other. So, there's several kinds of cardiovascular exercise. But as we said before, walking is the easiest, cheapest, most accessible. Okay? But look at this. Okay? Not just walking. It says also resistance training two or three times per week. This is the recommendation. I'll tell you why it's so important in a minute, but this is the minimum. Now, look at what they're saying here. Watch. It says that only 12% of diabetics follow their recommendation for resistance exercise.

Barely 12%. And 41% engage in any cardio. Not even half. Not even half of the people are doing cardio, let alone resistance training. It doesn't even reach 15%. You guys, what's going on? Why are people not getting better? Well, because they're not doing what's the minimum. the minimum if they did just the cardio. Just the cardio. If they did it, look at what it says right here. Following these recommendations and just they're if you really read them the the small print, what they're saying is just the recommendation for the cardio.

These recommendations result in a reduction of what they're talking about is hemoglobin A1C. That's your three months average for glucose. It's not the, you know, fasting glucose. It's your three-month average. Doing the 150 minutes a week results in a reduction of hemoglobin A1C of 0.89%. Now, you can say, well, that's nothing. It's not even 1%. Well, it turns out it's very similar to what is achieved with diabetes medication. The diabetes medication they're talking about is metformin. That is the most commonly uh prescribed diabetes medication which achieves 0.9% reduction in A1C.

In other words, walking 150 minutes a week, two and a half hours a week does the exact same thing almost as metformin. You pick. Metformin is not a bad medication in the sense that it doesn't even have as many side effects as others, but exercise has only good side effects. If you think about it, exercise side effects are always great. They help with a bunch of other things. There's no bad side effects. In other words, unless you do it maybe in excess. I mean, if you're running a marathon a day, that might be a little bit too much.

Okay. Um, and look, so these are some of the benefits. Okay. So if you're doing I would say okay the amount depends on you because I can't give you a umbrella recommendation for everybody. It depends on your age and depends of how your your health at the moment. Uh if you're not doing absolutely any exercise at all you might want to talk to your doctor first. Uh start small. Maybe if you if you can if you have some limitations maybe start with five minutes then increase to 10. Uh so on and so forth.

But here are the benefits. Uh it uses energy. In other words, it burns calories. It uh causes small increases in metabolism. It doesn't increase your metabolism a lot, but it does increase your metabolism a little bit. It improves muscle function. It protects the heart. That's why it's called cardio. The word cardio literally means heart. Uh Pastor Myers just started a resistance training challenge last week. I told you guys you guys need to you guys need to join that. It's absolutely wonderful.

It's awesome. What he's doing is wonderful. And I will tell you why I think so highly of it in a minute. But I want to tell you a quick story that I heard from Dr. Hans Deal. The late Dr. Hans Deal who I met in person is this wonderful person. Five minutes. Oh no. Okay. Better hurry up. Uh he told about a person who went to Weimart, a patient who they didn't even want to accept at Weimart. Guys, he was so ill. He barely could walk. He had a walker. He could barely walk two or three steps. He ran out of breath and he was so he had a heart condition and the he he had been told by the doctors basically go home and die.

They couldn't do much more for him. Uh and the doctors of Weimar were very worried that he might die at Weimar. So they didn't want to accept him. And so but they begged the family was like, "Oh, please, please help him." The doctor said he couldn't do anything, whatever. So finally said, "Okay, fine." They took him in. They were going to try to do, you know, whatever they could. And uh he was very, very sick. So sick that he couldn't walk with the rest of the patients. So at Weimar, Wemmer is this place here in California where they do this uh inatient uh kind of uh treatment kind of thing where you can stay and they do the new start program.

New start each letter starts for one of the eight principles of health. Some of you might be familiar with this what I'm talking about, but it's a lifestyle program and you stay I forget how many days. I think it's like 12 days or something like that. But you stay in there, right? They feed you, they take you for walks, they do consultations with doctors, they do blood work. I mean, they do everything and it's all lifestyle anyway. So, they take you for walks like a mile. You do trails. It's up in the mountains.

Beautiful. And so, after each meal, I think you go for walks. Anyway, this man was so ill he couldn't walk. He he could hardly walk a few steps. But right outside the main door there's one of those flag poles and it's like in a base like a round thing and the the cars can go around it, right? One of those things like a round thing. I I don't know the name of it. But he thought, "Okay, I can't walk a mile." So they went for one mile walks, I think. And he thought, "Okay, well I can't walk with him for one mile.

Maybe I can go around this flag pole. He couldn't go the whole way around the flag pole. He did like a quarter and he had to come back to his room. He couldn't do the whole thing. That's how bad he was. He's how sick he was. The second day he did like half, you know. The third day he a little bit more. Eventually he did the whole flag pole. You know, by the end of the program, I forget how many days. I'm sorry. I think it's like two weeks. By the end of the program, he did a mile. By the end of the program, this man was like in his 60s.

Okay. He went home. Obviously, he changed his diet, other things. He went home. Some people they go home after the program and they drop the changes like they stop eating the food they don't follow up right they don't follow but he did Takara just mentioned all the eight principles of hell the new start okay there they are look at them anyway this man did he followed through with all eight of them he continued eating a plant-based diet God's diet Genesis 129 diet he continued doing the exercise.

He started do going around the block. He eventually did several blocks. Then he started hiking. He started hiking you guys up, you know, nearby areas, started nature walks and stuff like that. And he did everything, the water, sunlight, temperance, all of the rest, trusting God. So he would, you know, keep up with new uh with uh with Weimar. He would, you know, tell them how he was doing. He was going out for hikes. So a couple times a year I think he would send them updates of how he was doing.

So oh you are going to for he hikes like two miles high, three mile highs. But after a couple of years, three or four years the communication stopped. They lost track of him. They lost track of him. And some of them wonder what happened to this man. You know I wonder it's been a few years, six, seven years they hadn't heard from him. But after 10 years, they got a postcard. This was years ago. Okay, so postcard, who uses postcards anymore? I don't know. But this was back in the 90s, I think, or whatever.

Do you guys remember postcards? You know what I'm talking about, right? Postcards. I don't know. Many of you young people might not know. Postcards. You know where from? It was from the Himalayas. A postcard from the Himalayas. Kiss from who? The this man. What was he doing up in the Himalayas? He was going up the Himalayas, you guys. Not only did he not die that time he went to Weimar, he eventually went around the flag pole. He eventually walked a mile. He eventually walked two miles, five miles.

Now he was walking up the Himalayas. That's what somebody remembers postcards to God. That's what God's true remedies do. That's what God can do. He can heal. He can heal and he can save. He can heal our bodies. He wants to give us life and life abundant and heal our minds, our hearts and our lives, our lives. Anyway, I digressed again. Okay, I want to say again that after meals is best times for diabetics and here is the research on that. Okay, I also want to tell you that here's the they also tell you here after meals, after dinner especially, this is what it says.

They also say that high intensity interval training is very very good for diabetics, very good for diabetics. And I'm not going to go too into in depth into this because we're out of time, but high intensity interval training is when you walk slow and then fast and then slow and then fast and you only have to do it for 20 minutes. But what that does is that it actually helps even more to burn fat and to control glucose and to improve mitochondrial. Remember the mitochondria, those little furnaces, mitochondrial capacity, meaning you're burning energy more efficiently.

That's why you're improving your glucose control. Here's the proof. I'm just showing you the evidence. Okay? So, that's in regards to HIT. In other words, highintensity interval training. You can look this up with more time on your own. You can look up if you want. That is if you want to see the evidence. This is what it's talking about. Okay? That's for diabetes, pre-diabetes, etc. So, these are the recommendations with regards to cardio. Hopefully for diabetics 10 to 20 minute minutes after each meal in total for the day.

If you can get to up to 45 minutes that would be ideal. Hopefully every day or at least five to six times a week. And if you can do one hit um or highintensity interval training, maybe not every day, maybe a few times a week, that would be super cool because you would burn more fat and glucose control. Okay, I want to tell you a little bit about the strength training. Why I think it's so important what Pastor Ivor Meyers is doing. It's not just for aesthetics, you guys. It's not just to show your nice muscles and for us ladies to look more toned.

It's not aesthetics. Look at some of the benefits. Okay? Improves metabolism 100% more than than walking. Walking does hardly anything for your metabolism. Why is this so important? Because many people have very broken metabolism, especially if you have done dieting. If you have tried losing weight time and time and time again, and you have failed, your metabolism is probably super low. People, yesterday, someone approached me at camp meeting. I was doing the health presentation, and she said, "I eat very little and I can't lose weight."

Guess why that happens? It's because your metabolism is low. Do you guys remember that show called the Best Loser? No. What was it called? The uh what was it called? Best Loser or something like that. The I forget the name. That show where people lost weight. Remember? Uh forgot the name. Put it in the chat if you remember. But it's a competition where people lost a lot of weight and they lost like 100 pounds or more and they were in a ranch. Uh, put in the chat if you remember the name of the show, but they did a study with those people that did the show many years later.

They did a study and they found that those people gained the weight back. Number one, and they were using up 900 calories a day. The biggest loser. Thank you. Thank you. The biggest loser. They were burning 8 to 900 calories a day, you guys. That's nothing. 800 900 calories a day. That's starvation. So they were barely eating anything a day and gaining weight. Of course they were gaining weight because they were barely eating. They were still hungry. That's nothing. 800 calories a day. They were probably of course they were eating more than 900 calories a day because their needs were 800 calories a day.

They were probably eating like 1,000 9,200 and they were gaining weight. your metabolism is damaged by doing dieting. And when I'm when I say dieting, I mean like um small, you know, like low calorie diet when you restrict your eating to eat like c the cabbage diet. Have you heard of that one? The cabbage diet. You eat nothing but cabbage for two weeks or whatever. Terrible stuff. Okay. Doing these kinds of things. So, like what I said in the beginning, our ancestors did it naturally. They were working the soil, cutting wood, washing clothes, doing all this stuff.

They didn't have to go to the gym. They didn't have to, you know, do weights and stuff because they did it every day just doing stuff. Now, we have automatic washing machines. We, you know, we don't cut wood to cook anything because we have and it turns on by itself, right? To cook. We're not to do anything. Therefore, we lose muscle mass. If you're anybody's here older than 30, if you're older than 30, you have been losing muscle 2 to 8% a decade, every decade. Because we're too sedentary compared to our ancestors.

our ancestors, they used up their muscles. We don't we don't because we are not working this the soil. We're not growing our own food. We're not cutting wood. We're not doing any of that. Therefore, we're losing muscle. The only way not to lose muscle is either you go wash your clothes in the river and start cutting your own wood and do all of that or you do strength training. That's what can preserve your muscle. And if you haven't been doing, you need to change your body composition back to what it should be.

That's what makes your muscle stronger. If you're older than 60, you might say, "Oh, no. That's just for young people. I'm too old." No, you need to do it even more. Guess why? Because if you're older than 60 or 65, your highest risk is false. If you fall, you might break a bone. The hip is really bad. My grandma fell and broke her hip. She never got up again. Never. You need to prevent that. You need to make your bones stronger and your muscles stronger. And for that, you need strength training.

also prevents osteoporosis. Facts. Thank you, Tara. Facts. It's just what it is. Okay. That's why I'm so passionate about this. That's why. So, now you know the why you need to join Pastor Ivor. So, look at this from diabetes care. This is for diabetics, pre-diabetics, and anyone who wants to avoid it. Twice a week progressive resistance training decreases abdominal fat and improves what? Look at the title. Are you looking at it? If you're not looking at, look at look at it now. Twice a week progressive resistance training decreases abdominal fat.

Some of you don't like that abdominal fat and improves That's the root cause of all those conditions we talked about. Remember that big circle with all those conditions? Well, here it is. Insulin And this resistance training helps not just the diet, not just the cardio, not just the walking, also lifting weights. You don't have to lift weights. Also, you can use your own weight. You can do abs, you can do push-ups, you can do all this stuff. You don't have to buy weights. There's other kinds of resistance training that don't require weights as you probably know.

Okay, so here's more. Uh there's how the uh this kind of exercise actually helps your metabolic rate. Very important because that means you're actually burning more calories even when you're sleeping. Even when you're sleeping, when your metabolism is broken, you're not burning enough calories throughout the day. But when your metabolism is restored, you're burning more calories, adequate amount of calories throughout the day, even at night. Okay, so this is what basically that that's what it's saying.

This is the conclusion. Basically, your metabolism is improved on average by 5% if you're doing this kind of exercise. At least this study, that's what it found. And of course, it helps with obesity and metabolic syndrome. The metabolic syndrome is when your lipids and your blood pressure and your blood sugar is all out of whack. And that's physical activity is helping you. Look at this lady. Look at this awesome lady. How do you think she is? You know what? This picture is from a article that came out in the uh magazine called um um National Geographic.

The year was 2005 and it was talking about something called the blue zones. It made the blue zones famous. National Geographic 2005 20 years. I'm pretty sure it's 2005. Made the blue zones famous. You guys, there's one blue zone here in in the in North America. Only one. You know where, right? Only one blue zone in North America. In the state where I am, I just happen to be in the same state as the blue zone in North America. And that blue zone is California. Tokara thinks this lady is 85. What about you guys?

Anybody else? How old is this lady? Because she is a resident of Luminda. Whoa. She's passed since because this was 20 years ago. Okay. But in this picture, I'll tell you, she's 101. 101. She's lifting weights. She get up in the morning. She do 20 minutes of bike and then she lift weights and then she go she drive her own car to go volunteer. Very active lady. She passed away at 104 I think. No diseases, no chronic conditions. Isn't that wonderful? Isn't that wonderful? That's how I like to go. Just stay in my sleep peacefully.

No diseases. Are you looking? Are you looking? This is why I think strength training is the true fountain of youth. Are you looking? Do you see the ages here? My goodness. Do you see what time they started exercise? Are you looking? Do you see at what ages they started? My oh my. It's never too late. You guys look at Wendy Ida. She's 61 in this picture. What an example. She's my idol. Ernestine came on my aunt show. No way. Oh. Well, now see this picture is old. She's like 80 something now. You know her?

Oh, you're so lucky. I think she's 80 something, right? I think she's 85 now. I mean, she looks amazing. She looks amazing. Do you see what age she started? She started at 56. I'm not 56. I'm not even 56 yet. I started at 39. I struggled with weight my whole life. I would walk, walk, walk, walk, gain weight, lose weight, gain weight, lose weight all the time until I don't know if you guys remember years ago, there was thing this thing called P90X. I bought those videos. I bought this v DVDs. P90X.

It was all strength training. I figured it out when I when I saw this thing and I was like, "Oh, this is it. I need to build muscle." I had been losing muscle by doing all this, you know, dieting. You know what? And you know, I don't I don't fault my mom and my grandma, okay? This is all cultural. The they grew up like this, too. But my grandma and my mom were always talking about weight. The first time I remember thinking about I need to lose weight when I was eight years old, literally. because they were always talking about weight, they also always gave me desserts.

How can this be? They give you sweets and then they tell you to lose weight. How? Chef Babette is also 74. I think I know her. And look, she's my age. Well, how old are you? You look great from the little picture. I'm gonna have to look her up. Okay, I'm going to look her up. I think I'm I might have her on my Instagram. She sounds familiar. I'm going to have to I think I know who she is. I'm almost sure I follow her on Instagram. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I'm going to look her up. Anyway, you got Yeah, I know.

It's insane. Okay. So, anyway, so okay, here's the proof, you guys. What I'm trying to tell you is look this once for a especially for females. No, for males, for everybody, honestly. You're 43. Well, you look amazing. You look you look fantastic to car. I'm just gonna say, okay, some people have good skin. Anyway, what I want to say is you guys anyone the muscles it's just it's just uh it just makes you look younger. Okay. Um look at this. But it's not about looks, it's about health. Because look at this picture.

Okay. the body composition when it's healthy and when it's not healthy. Okay, the person in the middle has too much weight. And so there's two ways to become healthier. You're welcome, Takara. There's two ways to become healthier. You lose weight the healthy way or the unhealthy way. If you lose weight the healthy way doing uh weight training, not just walking, not just dieting, especially not just dieting, you got to do it while doing strength training or else you will lose muscle. If you lose weight, listen, if you lose weight and you're not doing strength training, you will lose muscle just like the Biggest Loser people.

Okay? So, listen up. If you're trying to lose weight and you don't do strength training, you will be like the person in the right. Do you see the difference in the body composition? So this little section over here at the bottom, the person who's healthy all the way in the left, all the way in the left we see healthy and the red is muscle, the yellow is fat. That's the correct body composition. When we say body composition, that's what we mean. the muscle and the fat. You want the right proportions.

Now look at the right. Do you see what's happening here? This is the unhealthy. We see more yellow, less red, more fat, less muscle. Why is this unhealthy? Not just because it doesn't look good, you guys. It's because more fat gives you insulin resistance. Therefore, you have higher risk for cancer, for diabetes, for atherosclerosis, for PCOS, for n uh for neuropathy, for all the things we mentioned you guys, for heart attacks, for Alzheimer's disease, for erectile dysfunction, for all the things we mentioned.

That fat is inflammatory. Listen, that fat, that yellow stuff you're looking at is inflammatory. It produces inflammatory cytoines. Cytoines are these molecules that go around your body producing inflammation. You need some of it when you cut yourself when you have some kind of injury. You need inflammatory cytoines just temporarily. You don't want them chronically in your body. But the fat produces inflammatory cytoines chronically. You don't want that. Also produces estrogen all the time. excess estrogen for both males and females.

So, you have all these hormone imbalances, both males, males and females. Okay? You don't want that. Look at this person. This is just illustrative because I want you to look at the bottom. It says me at 130 lbs. And the right also says the same thing. It says me at 130 lbs. But wait a minute, this person looks different. It's the same person, but it looks different. The the two pictures look different. It's the same person, same weight. Why do the two pictures look different? You tell me. Why does this person look so different if she weighs the same exact weight?

Why? You tell me. Why does she look so different in the two pictures? Why? What's going on here? You tell me what's happening here. Put in the chat if you know what's going on. Obviously, she's been doing something. She's been working out. Probably something's been going on, right? So, she's probably been doing some strength So, why when people do strength training, they build muscle. The muscle mass is more dense, more condensed, and that means is a little heavier per volume. She has more lean muscles in the pink bra.

Yes, that's correct. She has more lean muscle. And the lean muscle, this um the muscle mass is a little heavier, if you will, per volume than fat. fat is kind of more uh it has it's has more volume per weight if you will. Let me show you this what I want to say. You see this uh I think this is a little bit exaggerated but it kind of uh explains what I want to say. It illustrates the point really well. Per weight muscle is more condensed whereas uh the fat has higher volume. Yes, muscle is heavier than fat.

That's exactly it Cheryl. Thank you. That's exactly it. So, you can weigh the same and yet look different. What I also want to say is there's another term for this. You know what? There's another term. You can h Did you know can can you put my face back? Uh, producer uh, Sister LJ, did you know? You guys, did you know that you can have normal BMI and be obese? Did you guys know this? You can have Oh, what? What did What? What? What? Let me repeat that. You can have normal BMI and be obese. take it take a little bit of time to obs to to process that in your mind.

You can be here's the other term I was just going to say. You can be skinny fat or fat skinny but skinny fat sounds better. You can be skinny fat. What does that mean by that? You can have normal weight but inside have the body composition of an obese person because you have the wrong body composition. Excess fat and too little muscle. And if you have normal BMI and you have the wrong body composition, even if you're normal weight, your BMI is 24, your doctor said you you're good. So, you don't even have to be overweight or obese to have these health problems.

As long as your body composition is not right, you can have these health problem. If you have extra of the yellow stuff over here, because this yellow stuff over here, the atapose tissue is not just an aesthetic issue. It's a health issue. This tissue produces inflammation, inflammatory cytoines. That's why it's a health issue. Okay? So, I'm not just telling you this so you can look better in a bikini. That's not it at all. It's about health. Okay? So, strength training, we can blow it up a little bit if you if if we can.

The strength training that we recommend is at least two to three times a week at the very least. You don't want to do it every day. Why you want to leave one day in between? Because that day, so after you do some strength training, let's say you lift some weights or whatever you want you do after, how do you feel? Do you feel a little sore? That's normal. The soreness comes from those muscle fibers breaking a little bit. And that's not a bad thing because you put a little bit of strain. you challenge your muscles a little bit and that means that they're going to rebuild a little stronger because your muscles are smart because God made them smart.

So that means that when they rebuild, they're going to little they're going to say, "Oh, I need to be ready next time this person lifts that weight again." So I'm going to make sure I'm ready next time she lifts that 5 lb weight. So I'm going to rebuild stronger. ready for the 5 lb dumbbell. So next time it rebuilds it's going to but that's going to happen the next day especially during sleep. So you need that sleep. Do not skip on the sleep. Okay? So you need that break, that rest time. Every time you do strength training, make sure you have a day after to rest.

I also put start slow. Ask your doctor, especially if you're past the age of 40. Don't start lifting 20 pound dumbbells right away if you're a woman or 50 pound dumbbells or whatever if you're a man. Don't start, you know, doing super heavy stuff. Ask your doctor. Okay. Start slow. Okay. Got it. Okay. Other benefits of strength training. We're going to finish with this because I'm way past uh but I just want you to know, okay, this is not just uh for diabetes or pre-diabetes. Look at what it says right here.

It improves bones. Well, I kind of had mentioned this uh just in passing, but I want to emphasize that what strengthens muscle strengthens bones. So, the best way to prevent osteoporosis, guess what? Well, number one, you need to avoid excess protein because excess proteins produces acidity in the body and guess how the body neutralizes the acid. I hope you know this, but the way the body neutralizes the acid is by releasing calcium from your bones. And do you know where the calcium goes? In the urine, out your body.

You pee it out. You flush it out of your body. Do you want that? I hope you don't. So, that's how osteoporosis really happens. It's not really lack of calcium because there's populations in the world that eat like 600 milligrams of calcium every day and have zero osteoporosis and don't drink milk. So, and the populations that drink the most milk in the world are the Nordic countries and also have the highest rates of osteoporosis and fractures. So, it's not lack of calcium of lack of uh dairy at all.

In fact, what causes osteoporosis is too much protein which leads to too much acidity and losing calcium and number two not doing enough of this because the resistance exercise is what prevents the loss of muscle which is what prevents the loss of bone density. Do you know? Okay. So, I hope you are working on this. Especially if you're young, you need to start young. You don't wait until you're 65. But if you are 65, you can still prevent further loss of bone especi if even if you have osteoporosis already.

Okay. By work with your doctor also your uh blood pressure and prevent strokes. So there's all these additional uh benefits also improve your lipids, cholesterol, triglycerides even. There's so many additional benefits. Now, I want to tell you something. If you um well, I mean, you can join Pastor Ivor, but if you wanted something additional, maybe for an older person, cuz this guide right here, go to any uh search engine. Doesn't even have to be Google. Any search engine, but you can Google it.

Okay? Google the name of this guide. Power up in 10. Just put the name in the search engine. Power up in 10. Just like that. And it will give you the results should give you a PDF produced by the state of California. It's just free. It was produced by the health department of the state of California for everybody. Free. You click on it and it gives you a PDF. It opens up. It's available in Spanish as well in, you know, whatever name in Spanish. I have it in I have it in Spanish in my website. So, if you go to my website in Spanish, you can download from my website because there's a link to it.

But in English, it's called power up in 10. You click on the PDF, download it into your computer, and it has 10 simple exercises that are strength training that anyone can do at any age at home. No weights needed. A ve they're are very simple. You don't have they're not advanced. In other words, you can do without any uh equipment. They're very for beginners. Okay? They're for beginners. So, even people who are 60 plus um people who haven't done anything in their lives, okay? Very simple stuff. You don't even need special clothing.

Nothing. This is simple. Okay? 10. It's a whole body thing. Okay. So, the 10 include the whole body. Very very simple, very non-threatening, non-intimidating. So, this is another uh option for people who are very very beginners. Okay, you can do this. So, I just wanted to share that with you. Simple and uh easy and free. This man Linda 94 94. My grandma died at 93. She had been in bed three years. This guy is 94. Look at how active, full of life. That's what God wants for us. Life and life abundant.

That's what God wants for us. And you know what? I didn't put it in the presentation, but there was an article in the LA Times years ago when the blue zones became really popular and it say Lomolinda residents live more than anyone else in California basically, but it didn't say everyone. It it says why Luminda residents live more than everybody else. That's what the headline of this article says, literally. Why Lumalinda residents live more than anyone else? Because they consider the body a temple.

What a what a witness to the b to the world these people these centinaries have been. And what I want to say is that when they started following the eight principles of health including the diet in the 50s60s there was no evidence scientific evidence to back it up. Now we have all the scientific evidence in the world. They had nothing but faith, nothing but the law and the testimony to back them up. Today we have all the the law, the testimony, the Bible, all of that and the scientific evidence and a small percentage of us are doing it.

They are our example I think and so few of us are actually doing it. So sad because Lomolinda has become only more and more famous. People that are non-ventist think we are all doing this. Seriously, I speak to non-adventists all the time and they talk about Lomalinda. Oh yeah, Linda, Linda, Adventist study, health study, blah blah blah blah blah blah. And they talk to me like all Adventists are doing this. They think that and we're not. We're not. It's kind of sad. I think it's sad because God has given this to us as a gift.

By the way, if you don't like weight training, if you don't like going to the gym, here's another alternative. Free also, except for the seeds. You might need to buy some seeds. But it includes both cardio and strength training, resistance training, but you have to do more than just one little tomato plant. Okay? You have to do more than just that, but it actually includes a lot of exercise. Okay? Let me read some of this. Um, that's why I'm restarting the uh restarting at the age of 43. I'm getting back into training.

Yes, that's great. Uh, that I used to do when I was in track and field. Awesome. Time magazine, the blue zone of Lomalinda. Yes. Yes. Uh, wonderful. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Wonderful reminder. Yes, Lever. Absolutely. Isn't it? These people are giving us such good example. We really need to give back to that. Oh yeah, I wanted to show you this picture of the the tools. Gardening, it's like going to the gym. Anyway, triceps, you can work triceps, forearms, chest. Just like going to the gym, you guys.

Okay, I want to finish with this uh with this uh verse because one time, okay, I'm really passed my time, but I'm sorry you guys. I just want to share one little thing. I was at a church one time and uh and so I was I was had just finished my masters in nutrition and so this person from church came up and said, "Hey, I heard you're a nutritionist." I said, "Yes, yes." "Oh, so can you uh design a diet for me so that I can lose some weight?" Because he was a little bit round, right? Um so yeah, he was kind of overweight.

And so he said, "Can you design us a a diet so that I can lose some weight?" And I said, "Sure. Uh, but can you make it so that I don't have to exercise at all?" And I said, 'Well, brother, I don't think it works that way. And you know what I said? I said, "Well, I don't think it works that way because in the Bible, God actually connected diet and exercise from the very beginning." And the reason why I think that is because of this verse. He said, "Well, in the sweat of thy brow, some of the versions say with the sweat of thy brow."

This one says, "In the sweat of your face, you shall eat bread." To me, that's a connection between exercise, physical activity, the sweat, usually bread, nutrition, diet, eating. So when I was working as a nutritionist at the clinic, I I used to work, you know, nearby like 25 minutes away from here at a clinic. I was a nut a clinical nutritionist and I used to talk about the diet and then exercise say, hey, you need to, you know, like maybe walk a few times a week and they go, well, how many days a week do I need to walk?

And just joking. I would say, well, how many days do you eat? However many days you eat, walk. No, I'm just kidding. That's just a joke. But eat well. I mean, walk as many days as you can because really you're we're supposed to be moving our bodies. The food is fuel for the movement. So, you know, with the sweat of thy brow, you shall eat bread. I think God is making a connection here. But that's just my personal interpretation. Okay, that's just my personal interpretation. Okay. To end, I want to leave you my website again, healthboard.net.

Just to remind you that number one, there is a 10day plan there. Okay? You are free to use it. Like I said, oops, I don't have a picture of that. I thought I had a picture of that. Um, but you I've showed you before the picture of the website and up in the top it says 10day challenge. You go there. Just click on that and then it opens up the page where you can download the Daniel challenge. So amazing. The Daniel challenge. I covered Daniel chapter 1 at my presentation yesterday. I think I mentioned this already.

I covered Daniel chapter one on my presentation yesterday at the camp meeting. And then came Pastor Ivor. This is we didn't even talk about this. Okay. Him and I. I talked chapter one. He covered chapter 2. 7 8 9 11 and 12. He covered the rest of Daniel. These things are together. God is so wonderful. Okay, now we're done. If you have any questions, go to this website, go to contact, contact me, contact us, whatever it says. I forget. You can write to me and I will try to answer back in less than a week.

I can't promise any faster because this week I'm doing presentations at camp meeting and I'm also doing a 10-day program at work. So, I'm super duper busy, but I will try to answer as soon as I can. Okay, two weeks. We'll see you again. I'm doing part four of this fourpart uh series. So, don't miss it. It will be August 5. August 5. And I'm going to talk about how to put it all together. It's really hard sometimes to make behavior changes. So, I'm going to talk talk about how to change your habits.

It's hard sometimes to have um to have self-control. I might even someday I'm going to do a whole presentation of food addictions. This is extremely important, but that's a whole different uh topic. But next week, we're gonna talk about how to Oh, actually, we're also going to talk about other things because I need to talk to you about the benefits of fasting. The benefits of other things for diabetes and and uh and um and pre-diabetes. I need to talk to you about other things that are very very important.

Sleep and stress management for diabetes and pre-diabetes and insulin resistance. I need to cover that. So, I'm also going to talk about that actually. Okay, next presentation. This is super duper important. Most people don't even know about this. I'm going to cover that also. Next presentation. That's August 5th. Don't miss it. Okay. If you have any questions, let me know. So, thank you so much. And you're welcome to Cara. Thank you for being here, all of you guys. I really appreciate you guys um for being here with us live for connecting and uh if any of you guys that connect later, I also appreciate you watching as well, please share, share and share and share.

Also like it because that means that more people will engage with the video if you like and share. Um, but remember this is this is material that's meant to be shared because that that way people will know that this is uh biblical. This is given to us by God. Okay, let's finish with word of prayer. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much again for all the blessings you have given us. We are not even worthy of the blessings you give us every day. And we ask you to forgive us if we have not been worthy of your blessings.

if we haven't taken proper care of this body temple. And we ask you to give us wisdom and uh understanding so that we can learn how to better care not only of our bodies but also how to better be representatives of of you and the and the and be better ambassadors and to be able to take this word to other people who might be in need of healing from you. Help us to take this word to those who have these conditions and maybe are desperate to know how to better take care of themselves, how to improve their health.

And help us to t to take this knowledge to them and also let them know that you are a God who cares for their health and their salvation, their their uh eternal life. And thank you for being always with us. Be with us the tonight, the rest of this week. and um and bless Pastor Ivor also who's presenting at camp meeting and help us to be together also on Sabbath. And we ask all of these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you you guys. Good night to everyone. We'll see you August 5th for True Health Tuesday, but also all the programs for Living Mana Online Church tomorrow and Thursday, also Sabbath.

Thank you very much everyone. Good night. Good night. C.