Friends of True Health Tuesday, I am so happy to be with you again. This is Maria Jose Hmel and uh I am very happy. This is true health Tuesday as always. Every other Tuesday we uh live stream and um here we are again as promised. So I hope you are connecting true health t with true health Tuesday and uh I promised you that I would talk about fasting today the healing power of fasting. So invite your friends if you're interested in this. If you know anybody who's interested in fasting uh share this um share this link with your friends.

Uh fasting is something that's become so popular lately. So you probably heard about intermittent fasting. We're going to talk about that. Uh but there's several kinds of intermittent fasting. So a lot of people have questions about that. So we'll talk about that. So share this link with your friends. There might be a lot of people who are interested in that. So put in the chat where you're connected from. By the way, you guys pray for me because I'm flying solo today. I have never done this on my own.

So, please pray for me. I am my own producer today. So, please elevate a prayer for me. We are going to pray, of course. So, I'm trying to make a mental note of everything I have to do today. So, play for me. Pray pray. We are going to pray. But I just wanted to uh first of all start off by saying that I'm flying solo. So if I make mistakes, please forgive me. Also, uh share this stream or share the link and share with your friends uh what this is about. It's about healing uh the healing power of Put in the chat where you are connected from.

I'm going to try to, you know, put the also try to remind me if you can. I'm going to try to put it on the screen. You know, I am very new at this, you guys. So, I'm going to try I'm going to try to do this the right way. So we're going to talk about fasting. So let's start with prayer so we can go ahead and get started with today's uh topic. So let's start with a prayer. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for the opportunity that you always give us to connect through technology. Uh no matter where we are in the world, thank you so much for True Health Tuesdays and for Living Mana online church.

and we ask you to be with us today with today's uh presentation and live stream and uh bless everything who's everyone who is connected in Jesus name we pray. Amen. Oh, we already have someone here from Tennessee. Thank you Sharon for connecting with us. So everyone uh put a one in the chat if you are interested in this topic. If it's something that uh you are excited about uh learning uh because Sharon says she's looking forward forward to hearing about intermittent fasting. By the way, this is some something that uh I um you know, so let me tell you something real quick.

I'm going to give you a little anecdote. I have been in the church for I don't know how many years you guys have. I'm going to give my age. I'm going to give up my age a little bit. I've been in uh in the church for like over 40 years. And I was one of those people who would I don't know if anyone relates uh with me uh on this, but uh I was one of those people who would say you've probably read those uh quotes. I actually will show the quotes in a minute that it's better to eat two meals rather than three.

And we've those of us who've been in the church for a long time have read those quotes many many times. And I have read those quotes too. And I would say, "Yeah, but you know, oh, I go to the gym. I'm too active. I'm this and that and the other." When COVID came, um, I was reading a book called The Circadian Code and by a neurologist. And I do not recommend what he says about diet. He is a neurologist after all. He that is not his strength. So maybe skip the part about nutrition. Okay. But what he says about the science of the circadian rhythm uh and fasting is it convinced me.

So I was convinced by the science. I am ashamed to say I was convinced by the science of the circadian rhythm in regards to fasting and intermittent fasting. And it blew me away. It blew my mind and I started doing it right around the time of the pandemic when the pandemic started. And I have to say around that time I had a torn meniscus that I was thinking about getting a surgery for, but I I didn't get a surgery because my account I had my husband and I have an HSA account, which is one of those accounts that you start saving money for to pay your your deductibles and your co-ayments and all that.

And it was empty because my husband had had an accident. And so it was kind of empty. So I was, you know, it it's my torn meniscus was bad, but not as bad. I could still walk. And I decided to wait for the surgery until, you know, the account, you know, filled up a little. And so I hadn't gotten the surgery yet. When COVID started, of course, we couldn't do the surgery. And and I started doing intermittent fasting. After about a year of doing intermittent fasting, I was like, "Oh, what happened with my torn meniscus?

I forgot all about it." I don't know. I can't prove it scientifically because my insurance will not pay for another MRI to see if my torn meniscus is still torn. So, I can't tell you what happened with my meniscus, but it's gone. That's all I could say. It does not hurt. It does not bother me. It is gone. That's all I could say. That's my personal testimony on what intermittent fasting did for me in less than a year. My torment. By the way, the uh orthopedic surgeon who is an Adventist told me I asked when I went to when I went to talk to him, can you do anything for the torn meniscus?

And he said, no, you cannot do anything for the torn meniscus. You know, I was hoping that as an Adventist he would say, "Oh, yeah, you can eat this, that, whatever." And he's like, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Torn meniscus will never heal because it's like a hangail. This is cartilage. It will never, you know, stick back, you know, it will never heal. There's no blood flow to it. It will never heal." Thank you, Linda, for joining us from Youngsttown, Ohio. Put it in the chat if you're uh where you're where you're joining us from.

So, welcome Linda. Um, so anyway, this orthopedic surgeon uh anist said it will never heal. There's no blood flow to it because it's cartilage. After a year of doing intermittent fasting, it never hurt again and to this day. Personal testimony. I don't know how I cannot tell you scientifically how it happened because like I said they will never pay for another MRI. So I don't know what's I don't know what's in there. I don't know if it's back healed. I can't tell you. That's all I can say. It's that my tormeniscus does not hurt anymore.

Praise the Lord. Dylan, South Carolina, thank you Ashley for joining us from Dylan, South Carolina. All right. So again, as always, you're welcome, Linda. As always, I always say that I the information that I will give you today is not meant to be medical advice. All right? So everything I say is for educational purposes only. I am not your doctor. I'm not even a medical doctor even though I have a a doctorate degree. But that doesn't mean that what will you what you will hear today is meant to be medical advice.

everything. Oh, somebody's uh joining us from girly, Alabama. Maxi Shelton, welcome Trinidad and Tobago. Welcome M uh Daniel Sharpie. Blessings to you. All right. So, the other thing that I always emphasize is the importance of I hope you remember this. Many of you might not know if you're joining us for the first time, but I go by this rule and I hope you join us as well. I mean, I don't know how many of you uh who are connected today go by this rule as well. I recommend it, but you know, it's up to you.

Uh but I use this as the the rule of my life. I will put it I will blow it up for you to the law and the testimony. If they speak not according to this word is because there's no light in them. Okay. So I try to use this as my rule not just for spiritual me uh you know purposes but also for health purposes. So everything that I will present today I try to make it so that it's in harmony with the Bible and spirit of prophecy. That's what the this verse for me that's how I interpret this verse. I don't know how you interpret Isaiah 8:20 but for me that's how I have been taught throughout my years and many many many years in the church also I think that what we present should have scientific um good scientific basis.

So I think you know I always show you this uh graphic right here which is the the hierarchy of scientific evidence and I consider just people's opinions to be very low in that hierarchy whereas a good quality evidence should be you know scientific review or systematic review and meta analysis and good scientific research to be good quality and people have asked me in the past oh why do you use so so much science when we have the Bible But sometimes we talk to people who are not Christians. And in fact, Ellen White has told us that science is power.

The knowledge of science is indeed power. And she has told us that it is especially important in preparation for the work that is to precede the closing scenes of Earth's history, which is right now. Have you noticed what's going on today? today in the news just look at the news and it seems that you know it's like reading the great controversy you guys I don't know if you agree but uh I think it's I agree with this other uh statement that a practical knowledge of science of human life is necessary in order to glorify God in our bodies.

All right, but I also want to show you another one. Okay, so this one's new and it's relevant for today. Let me blow it up for you a little bit. Um, okay. Here we go. Ah, that's the one I was talking about before. In most cases, two meal two meals a day. Watch. Two meals a day are what? Preferable to three. Supper when taken at an early hour interferes with the digestion of the previous meal. taken later. When taken later, it is not itself digested before bedtime. Thus, the stomach itself or thus the stomach sorry fails to of securing proper rest.

The sleep is disturbed. The brain and nerves are wearied. The appetite for breakfast is impaired. The whole system is unrefreshed. Oh my goodness. It's almost as if I'm reading some kind of uh scientific research paper because it's exactly what they have found and it is unready for the day's duties. That was written in 1903. Wow. Next. Most people enjoy better health while eating two meals a day than three. Others under their existing circumstances may require something to eat at supper time, but this meal should be very light.

Oo. Okay. Interesting. Very, very light. Okay. Good. Good to know. Let no one think himself a criterion for all. Okay. Ooh. Important to read that last sentence that everyone must do exactly as he does. Let us not be judges of anyone. That is very important. Okay? Because just because we follow, you know, the two meal, the intermittent fasting doesn't mean we should judge anyone for not doing it. So that's very important. I think it's important to to remember that just because we follow a whole food plant-based diet, we follow the Genesis 129 diet, doesn't doesn't make a judges of anyone else.

All right? anyone anyway. Okay, let's move on because I think this topic is so relevant nowadays even in the news. Have you seen articles? Have Have you seen it? You know, even maybe influencers on social media talking about why is intermittent fasting so popular? Not just intermittent fasting. I would say all fasting is popular nowadays. And in fact, of course, fasting has been known to us in the church, has been known to the world forever. It's an ancient practice as you probably know. In fact, it was practiced by ancient doctors.

So it was used therapeutically by Greek physicians. So apparently this person you see on the screen right now is Hypocrates, a Greek physician from the fifth century before Christ who recommended abstinence from food or drink to patients who presented certain symptoms of illness. Some physicians way back then, you guys recognized fasting is an instinct. Wow. And certain patients with certain disease states naturally experience loss of appetite. Have you noticed that yourself when you're sick? Have you noticed that?

Naturally, sometimes we lose appetite. Why? because maybe our body is telling us something. Makes sense. Some doctors believe that giving food during these states was unnecessary and possibly even harmful as fasting was thought to be an important natural part of the recovery process. I agree. Do you agree? Because I have heard people tell me the exact opposite. And sometimes we believe the exact opposite of that. It's frozen. Oh no. Hello. Hello. Do you see me in now? It could be my uh internet.

It could be my internet. I hope. Do you see me again? If you see me again, please put a one in the chat. Please put a one in the chat if you see me again because it could be my internet. So if you see me, please put a chat is please put a chat or I'm sorry, please put a one in the chat if you see me. Uno. Do you see me? Oh no, I don't see any ones. Okay. Yes. Ah, I see a one. Yay. Thank you. Thank you, Jesus. Thank you, God. Yes. All right. So, what I was saying, yes, I see more ones. Thank you, God.

Yay. Praise the Lord. We're back. Thank you, Jesus. Thank you. Thank you for all the ones, you guys. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I have heard, tell me if you have heard this before, because I think there's a lot of people who think this way. Okay. When somebody is somebody's sick, you have to feed them. They need nutrition to recover. They need more food. More food. Feed them. Feed them. Feed them. Feed them. Feed them. Feed them. I have a friend from church who told me that the other day, which is the exact opposite of what, you know, people like Socrates thought.

And I think rightly so. Maybe not every disease, but with some diseases, people naturally lose their appetite. Maybe for a good reason. [Music] Maybe for a good reason. Okay. Anyway, uh today fasting has shown to have pretty incredible benefits for the body. Now, let me let me let me tell you a story. Okay, I'm going to tell you a story. of a a young man and you'll see that this picture is quite old. So this man this young man back in the 1970s was an athlete. He competed in the Olympics or was at least a hopeful Olympic figure skater.

Okay. So, he was training to be in the Olympics, but he suffered a serious leg injury and was forced to walk on crutches he could not even bear the weight on his leg without excruciating pain. His heel was so swollen and tender that the mere weight of the sheets caused intense discomfort because he placed on the top two in the country for the event that he was preparing for for the US Olympic. The Olympic committee encouraged him to seek treatment with the top orthopedic surgeons in the country.

After months though, months, months of needlesticks, probing, medical tests with the prominent doctor in the field, prominent, he was still unable to walk after a year of pain. So, he was quite discouraged. His doctors offered no solution for the swelling and acute sensitivity on his injured foot. Then one day without warning while he was in the hospital a nurse walked into the room and told him to take some medicine because his doctor um proposed a surgical plan. uh he he was going to uh perform some surgery the next morning which was some kind of experimental surgery and he was outraged because the doctor had not discussed this with him.

He was he refused to take the drug and he demanded to talk to the doctor uh and he demanded that the doctor discussed the proposed surgery. Later the in the day the doctor came into the room. He actually burst into the room and was kind of upset. You know sometimes doctors could be a little bit arrogant especially surgeons I guess. uh and he informed the athlete that this was an experimental surgery uh that required to promote healing or that was required to promote healing on his foot. And he explained that he would expose the tissues and he would use the scalpel to traumatize the area.

Okay? and he would cook he would make like a checkboard pattern on the tissues in an attempt to stimulate the area to heal. This was experimental. And when he heard this, if this young man said like, "No way you're doing that on me. No way. Like you're I'm not going to be your guinea pig pig basically." And the doctor got angry and told him that if he did not undergo the surgery, he would never walk again. Never. But the young man refused the surgery anyway and left the hospital. He was a young athlete.

He was aware. He remembered that a few years earlier his father had arthritis and that he had restored his health because of fasting. So he recalled the articles and the books that the dad had read on fasting. This was in the 70s. Okay. Okay. So he realized that the technique maybe could be good for him. Maybe maybe maybe it was his best chance. So what did he do? He went to a place called the Dr. Shelton's Health School. All right. So this was a place way back in the 70s where people went to get healed.

Kind of like a sanitarium. kind of like those ad places back in uh the early 1900s sort of like that. Okay. Oh, we have someone Andrea from B uh New Brunswick, Canada. You've you've uh joined us before. Welcome back, Andrea. And uh I read that people tend to lose appetite and muscles because your body is batt battling. Okay, I'm gonna put it up here. Oh, I did it. I I've never been able to do this before, so this is my first time. um is battling the illness using your immune system and the protein in your body to recover.

That's a very interesting uh theory. Very good. Very good. It might be it might be true. All right. Okay. Thank you for that comment. Okay. So, back to the story of this young man. He determined that fasting uh like I said was his best chance. So, he travel traveled to Dr. Shelton's uh school of health in San Antonio, Texas and fasted. You would want to know how long. I do not recommend doing this, okay? This is could only and should only be done under medical supervision. There are places where you can do this kind of long-term fasting, but should only be done under medical supervision.

Did you hear me? Only under medical supervision. He did it for 46 days. Whoa, that's even longer than Moses. All right. 46 days. At the end of the fast, he was able to walk again. In just over a year, Heath placed third at the World Professional Figure Skating Championship. Praise the Lord. I don't know. He's not a Christian, but still, praise the Lord. Uh, at Dr. Shelton School of Heal of Health. The young man saw asthmatics cured. They uh they no longer needed medication. People with asthma. He saw ulcerative colitis patients with intestinal bleeding who recovered without medication or surgery.

He saw people with chest pain who had been told they needed bypass surgery and they were riding bikes and jogging for the first time in years. This young man saw for himself how the body could heal itself if the causes of disease were eliminated. Wow. He was so impressed with what he witnessed and experienced that he sought out other practitioners who had used fasting and natural diets to cure their patients. And what he learned from them excited him so much that he decided to attend medical school and become a doctor.

in medical school. However, do you think he saw the same things? What do you think? Do you think he saw patients being cured of asthma without medications, p people with ulcerative colitis, with internal bleeding recovered without surgery, or people with chest pain told that needed a bypass surgery jogging and riding their bikes? No, that's exactly the opposite of what he saw. In medical school, patients were treated with conventional modern methods. Given large amounts of medication to control their symptoms, they rar rarely recovered.

Unfortunately, as you know, as a medical student though, the young man saw patients that suffer and die unnecessarily while under the care of modern science. Uh but he remained convinced that people could get better if they knew how to use fasting and the proper diet to restore their health. Do you want to know who this doctor is? Do you want to know? Or maybe you already know. Do you know who this doctor is? I'll tell you because he's actually well known. He's written a bunch of books and I recommend reading his books.

He's only written one book on fasting. All the rest of them are on diet and the diet he recommends. I don't know if he knows is the Genesis 129 diet. He might because he's heard about Adventist. He might have written about Adventist in his books. I don't remember. I read his book so long ago. He might have mentioned Adventist in his books because Adventists are talked about within the circles of uh lifestyle medicine. He's well known in this field of lifestyle medicine. Anyway, this book, this uh doctor's name is Joel Ferman and uh I definitely uh recommend reading his books.

He's written extensively on how you can get better. Oh, no, it's not Dr. Kellogg. Uh he Dr. Kellogg passed away a long time ago and Dr. Ferman is still around. In fact, he uh goes to all these conferences. Uh you can probably see him if you go to one of the conferences on lifestyle medicine and you can buy his books. He does see patients actually in uh New Jersey, but it pro it probably is hard to get an appointment with him. Uh but he he's sees patients. He has an active practice. Interesting, right?

Okay. So, that's Joel Ferman for you guys. So, look him up. Uh Ashley says, "I have been doing intermittent fasting since May." Let's show. All right. There it is. Oh, since May and have lost 45 pounds and gotten off your autoimmune meds like Prednazone. Oh my goodness. All these other medic other medications like blood pressure med. Oh wow. What a testimony, Ashley. Praise the Lord. Prennazone especially is one of those medications that has so many side effects. If you can get off that medication, especially, I mean, of course, all the other medic gird medications for GER, they're not really meant to be long-term medications.

And people really, if they can get off of them, too. Oh, what a blessing. What a blessing. Oh, praise the Lord. Congratulations. What a blessing. So, see what it can do. 45 pounds. Wow. Great. Awesome. So, what happens? How does this happen? I'm going to try to show you real fast the physiology behind fasting. So, we understand what's going on a little bit. It's not like you, you know, have to know this, but I think it helps to understand a little bit what's going on behind the scenes, so to speak, inside of the body physiologically.

But, let me blow it up so you can see it better. During fasting the body is not directing the energy that take the digestive system takes a a lot of energy. Okay, the digestion takes a lot of energy. So when the digestion is not happening with that when the digestive system is resting so to speak all of that d activity that energy is going to the healing process. When we eat late the activity of digestion can deplete the body's energy and prevent the healing process that should be happening at night.

During the night especially is when the healing, the reparation of tissues, the cleansing especially of the brain, the flushing of toxins of the brain that happens at night. The glimpmphatic system, look it up later, is happening at night in the system in the brain flushing the toxins out of the brain. That happens in the night when you're sleeping. So, if you're not sleeping, that's a problem number one, obviously. But if your body has food in the digestive system, if you ate late or not early enough, a lot of that energy is going into your stomach in the top part of your in intestines, which is doing the digestion.

that part of the D, you know, like the um the right outside the stomach and uh the the first part of the um the the the tube. Let's let's let's say the um not the colon, but the the the small intestine, the dadinum, that's where the most of the digestion takes place. Okay? So that Cshape that you see right there, right outside the stomach, that's most of the digestion is taking place. That takes energy, you guys. So if that's happening at night, that energy goes to the energy of the healing, the reparation of tissues, the cleansing, all of the rejuvenation that needs to takes place that needs to take place.

It's going towards that. So how is all the reparation going to take place? Would fasting help parasites in the gut? Maybe, but you might need to take an antiarasite. There's some herbs that can help with that. Uh, by the way, and some seeds that can help with that as well. I'm at work, but jumped for for a second. Thank you, Takara. Thank you for joining us. Thank you. We always like having you. All right. So, uh, let me show you what a healthy and an unhealthy cell look like comparing the two because an unhealthy cell, as you can see here, uh, there's some waste products that are not being eliminated.

So fasting helps to eliminate the like the cellular waste. But if you're not fasting, that energy is not being put into that elimination. This is all energy that's going into digestion. Instead, the digestion is a very energyintense process. So here I was talking about the glimpmphatic system. It's called glimpmphatic because it's a mix of the lymphatic system, but since it's in the brain, it just, you know, it's it has a slightly different name. Uh it's in the brain, the glimpmphatic system. It's the system that basically flushes out the waste.

You can see it in on the right hand side there. The neurons, the lymph vessels and the waste that's now this waste. It's not like there's something wrong with you. Okay? It's waste that's naturally being produced just by normal activity of the brain. The brain is very intense organ. Obviously, everything that's happening in your brain is normal. It's very intense. So there's a lot of metab metabolic activity that needs to happen that naturally produces waste that needs to be flushed out every single night.

So that's important to happen. But all of that energy is going to be again diverted out if we're eating late. Especially if we're eating late, we should not be doing that. We should avoid doing that. Okay. So fasting provides the body with the ideal environment, for healing, for detoxifying. That's that's a real detox. Okay? Real detox happens at night when you're sleeping if you provide the right environment. That's why intermittent fasting is really the best fasting because it's the one, the only really the only kind of fasting that it's in harmony, perfect harmony with your circadian rhythm.

Not that all other kinds of fasting aren't good. All fasting is good. Actually, every single kind of fasting has benefit because the minute you stop eating, you give your body a break and your your body is going to go into some kind of healing process immediately. So, all fasting by nature is going to help in some way. But the only kind of fasting that is in perfect harmony with the circadian rhythm. Now, what circadian rhythm you might be asking yourself, right? I haven't defined that. All right.

I I I threw out the word and didn't say what it what it is. Circadian, the word circadian has to do with day and night, with light and dark. And as humans, we're not cats. We weren't created to walk around in the night or mice. I think also mice are nocturnal. So, nocturnal animals are the ones who were created by God to go outside at night and do whatever they're doing. We are not. God created us to wake up in the morning and go outside and look at the sky and the sky is blue. That blue light goes into our eyes and starts stimulating the brain to wake us up.

That's why when we are at night using screens bad. Why? Because the screen has a blue light. So when at night you're looking at the screen, the blue light enters your eye, stimulates the brain to think it's day. You got to take out the blue light. You got to put it in night shift or not use it at all which is better at night. Anyway, you see why it's so important to put the any screen, not just the not just the phone, your tablet, your TV, any screen. You got to put it on night shift and take out the blue light or else you're telling your brain it's day.

I hope I'm making myself clear. All right, Malawo Chilmo, good morning. Good. It's morning for you. I think you must be in somewhere else. Okay. Your idea of fasting in short terms like Christ did put the body on time out. Yes. God goes through uh the ordeal with you all the way for he is within you and out. You know, let me blow this up. Let me show everybody what uh he is saying here. Uh, the choice not to eat verely grabs our Lord's attention because all the I don't know how else to show the rest.

Uh, okay. So, he says, um, the choice not to eat barely grabs our Lord's attention because all the while he is pleading you to feed him within, but you won't until he blesses you. Then he can change your name depending on how long you asked. That's my idea of fasting and prayer in a nutshell. A low-key body tantrumish. That's a very interesting word. Until you get what you want by choice. When you finally eat your and breakfast, God celebrates more than one than we can fathom. It's a very nice um idea of fasting.

It's basically I think you what you're saying is sacrificing your own self and your will to God. I love that. That's a very nice concept. Thank you. Thank you for sharing that. Um, and Ashley says, "Which is why it's so dangerous to eat three meals a day plus snacks. You're not giving your body a break." You're right. I think. And it keeps insulin levels high. Ex. Exactly. Leading to insulin resistance. Thank you very much. You're so right. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yes. 100%. All right. So, intermittent fasting, there's many kinds, as you might know.

You can skip a meal. That's already intermittent fasting. Fasting on alternate days. You probably heard um so some people do the 52. I don't know if you've heard they fast two days a week, eat whatever they want, the other five. I'm not sure that's a great idea. Uh 24-hour fasting. We've done this at church. I don't know if you have done this at church. I mean, I've been in the church for so long. Uh we've done fasting days, but fasting and prayers. Sometimes we've done it with just uh water. Other times we've done it with juice, just fruit.

I mean, there's all kinds of fasting, right? And like I said, all of them provide some kind of benefit. But uh what we called uh intermittent fasting that has to do with and the the early timerestricted eating or restricted eating which has to do more with the circadian rhythm and and let's go back to the circadian rhythm again it has to do with the day and night rhythm and as I said humans are created by God to be awake during the day. Unfortunately some people work night shift and that's outside of our control.

I mean, my cousin just graduated from nursing school, and nurses when they have to start working, they're going to work night shift. Now, there are there is some um some research that has shown to amilarate because there's going to be bad uh side effects from working at night. There's no working around that. But you can amilarate the effects of working night shift by not eating during your work shift. Do not eat during your work shift. So, you can eat before or you can eat in the morning when you're done working, but do not eat during the night.

And there's benefits to that. Uh so you know it's one way to lessen the negative effects of working at night and try to keep the same schedule which is very hard but if you try to keep the same schedule constant and I know how difficult it is because it's all over the place you know there sometimes they work four days a week sometimes they work three days a week and it's random sometimes it's it's not the same days as you know every week. So, it's hard, but if you can try to keep a steady schedule, it's better.

It's not as bad as if you know you some days you work, you are asleep during the night and some days you're not and it's just all over the place. That's actually worse. Anyway, but did you know that every organ in your body has a clock? Every single organ in your body has an internal biological clock. It's not just just in your brain. your pineal gland, which is the one that releases melatonin. There's a little gland that I've actually touched it. You know, I've had, you know, some people who take anatomy sometimes and they have cadaavvers and you actually get to touch these little things in the brain.

It's a little tiny thing uh inside of the brain. But it's not the only thing uh that actually has a clock. There's another internal clock inside of the brain that actually is the master clock. Uh but every single part of your body has an internal clock. So we were made to be um directed by this rhythm, the circadian rhythm. So that's why when we violate it, we actually pay the price so to speak. Our uh health suffers when we do not follow the circadian rhythm. And so interestingly enough, we were actually made to eat earlier in the day.

And I will show you that. But if you do a search, if you go to Google or any other search engine and you Google intermittent fasting, this is what you I mean I just this is what I did, right? I did a a search and this is the kind of thing you will find for intermittent fasting. This is the popular kind. You fast in the morning, you skip breakfast. Yes or no? Have you done any searches to look for intermittent fasting? What What do you see the popular kind of fasting nowadays? You skip breakfast.

You start eating at noon and you eat until 8:00 p.m. Some of them say 9. Have you seen this here? I'll show you another one. This is just I just Googled it. Intermittent fasting. This comes up. Fasting window is between 12. Oh, this is really fuzzy. Sorry about the quality. But basically, uh, noon and 8:00 p.m. the 168 method, some of them call it. Uh, so you're eating until about 8:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. You um, you skip breakfast. Why do you think this might not be best? Any ideas? Well, I'll show you something.

I'll show you something. Okay. They have done some research on this actually. Plenty of research actually. And they have found the following things. Okay. I'll show you something. I'll show you a little comparison. very uh simple graphic. So what you see on the top here over here is basically the typical American pattern. Ad liitum is a Greek expression that means eat whatever at whatever time. So they basically represented by a 24-hour clock. Eat at whatever time 12 hours a day or more. Actually, Americans eat about 15 hours a day, honestly.

So, eat whatever at whatever time. And do you see the um what happens with that? What are the consequences? That's the word I'm looking for. What are the consequences? Arrow up. Risk for chronic diseases. That means increase of risk for chronic diseases. Simple, right? Now what we just saw in the previous graphics is that you start eating at noon. Let's say you are delaying your eating window. So that's called right here the bottom here. It's called delayed timerestricted eating. Delay. you delay the eating window.

That's why it's called delay. T R E. The T re stands for timerestricted eating. And do you see what what's in the little box over here? There's a big question mark. Why? Because the benefits are not so clear. There is question mark because some studies show benefits and others do not. There's mixed results. Some studies have shown cholesterol goes up with this. Some studies have shown people do not lose weight with this. Some people do, some people don't. H question mark. But do you see what's in the middle?

Do you see that arrow down risk for chronic disease decrease for risk for chronic disease? Do you want that? So what are we looking at here then? What is this early t rear timerestricted eating? You're not delaying the window. You're eating early. Early timerestricted eating is the only modality of intermittent fasting that is in harmony with the circadian rhythm. I'll show you. I'm not just talking. This is evidence-based. So early timerestricted eating is when you start eating in the morning. Eating in the morning.

And it has shown that it improves 24hour glucose levels and it affects markers of the circadian rhythm. Aging. Do you want to age less fast? Do you want to age less? Autophagy. What is autophagy? You know what autophagy is? Is when your cells start eating that waste and Take it out. Do you want your body to clean that waste out? Let me blow it up actually so you can read. What are we seeing here? That blue says TRF timerestricted feeding. Sometimes they call it feeding. Improved weight loss and cardioabolic end points such as insulin levels, insulin sensitivity, and blood pressure.

when participants ate when late. No, it says early or in the middle of the day, but worsened cardioabolic health or had no effects when participants ate late in the day. Clear. Could not be more clear. Huh? Look at this. Look, please look, look, look, look, look. Because I don't know that you can get more clear than this. They compared two groups. Basically, the group on the left ate whatever. Typical American pattern. Eat at whatever time. The group on the right did what kind? Early timerestricted feeding.

They ate. In fact, they give us the time right there on the little plate. They started eating at 8. They ended at 2. That's pretty small window actually. It's less than 8 hours. About 6 hours or is it 8 9 10 11 12 two. Yeah. Okay. Look at the benefits you guys. On the left we see the benefits for diabetics postprandial. It's a pretty fancy word for after meals. So, their insulin after the meals was less. Why? The answer is the middle. Because their sensitivity was better. In other words, because their pancreas was working better.

That's what's beta. That Greek uh B beta cell. Those are the cells in your pancreas. They work better. your pancreas is working better which is what diabetics want meaning you had better sensitivity to your insulin as well so def basically it's better for diabetics great awesome okay on the right we see blood pressure went down which is what Ashley told us right no somebody else told us I forgot who told us somebody told us that they lost 45 pounds I forgot I have to go back oh yeah Ashley. Yes, Ashley told us happens right here too.

Oxidative stress went down. Appetite. Oh, please pay attention. Appetite went down when though. Please pay attention. The appetite went down when in the evening. How is that possible that the appetite went down in the evening? We've talked about this before at all. They're not eating in the evening and the appetite went down in the evening. Crazy. Now, their triglycerides went up. And you might be thinking, "Oh, that's terrible. That's a bad thing." I'll tell you why that happened. It's because they are in fat oxidation.

These people are burning fat and they do explain us this in the in the discussion. If you read the study, they do give an explanation. They're in fat oxidation, meaning they're burning fat. So they come here or they come, you know, to the research place after 18 hours of fasting. And so they're actually in in the fat oxidation mode. They're burning fat. So the fat shows up in the blood. So that's the discussion. That's what they said. But I want to show you something super interesting here because regarding the appetite aspect of it.

Do you see? I think I showed you did I show you this last week, but some people might not have uh connected last uh time. So I want to show you these because this has to do with the appetite aspect of it. in the far top left, desire to eat. In fact, the whole row up on top has to do with appetite. Okay, desire to eat in the top left. In the middle, it says capacity to eat and in the right it says hunger. And I want you to notice that the dark bar are the people who fasted whereas the the white bar are the people who ate at whatever time and meaning they were eating dinner.

And yet in the evening, comparing the evening, their desire to eat of the people who fasted, the capacity to eat, and the hunger of look at the black bar comparing the white bar. The black bar is shorter, meaning they had less desire to eat, less capacity to eat, less hunger than people who were fasting. And they had less of those things in the evening. Look at it. Are you looking? And look at the bottom row now. Because this is crazy if you think about it. How can this happen? How can this happen?

Because now we're looking at fullness. Fullness. And stomach fullness in particular. Okay. What? They were not eating. Okay. How how do you explain this? Because look at the evening and both the evening and now look at the dark bar compared to the white bar in the evening for fullness and for stomach fullness. How is it that they're more full if they're not eating in the evening? They stopped eating at 2. What? They were eating air. Did the air make them feel full? Explain that. I'll explain it.

Don't worry. I'll explain it coming up here. I'll tell you how that happened. Here's the title of the study you want to look at. Early timerestricted feeding reduces appetite. Do you see reduces appetite? Look at the yellow down here at the bottom. Early tiger restricted feeding also may increase fat loss by increasing fat oxidation is what I was just telling you. Burning fat. Okay, the next slides just talk about the insulin aspect of it. So this is very good for diabetics. there's less insulin and more beta cell responsiveness.

So, this is great. But I want to show you something super interesting for the appetite aspect of it. Okay, the four things we're looking at, they're all appetite hormones. Appetite hormones. In fact, the one you see at the bottom right, you might recognize the name. Do you recognize the name GLP1? Do you know that name? The other two on the left, you I don't know. I've been talking about those for a long time because one of them stimulates appetite, the other one reduces appetite. Now, the fact that ghrein goes down doesn't help.

But the fact that the other three, you know, the the whole action of all four of them here, the whole action of all four of them combined makes appetite go down. And the fact that GLP1 goes up in the afternoon is what I want to want what I want to really uh point out because GLP1 you guys GLP1 semiglutide otherwise known as oampic is this. Did you know? Did you know that intermittent fasting elevates the levels of GLB1? Well, there it is. There it is. Now, you know. Okay. So, here we have some uh things I haven't showed.

Uh okay. So, wow. Ad libbitum is why we have Okay, let me show it. uh ad libitum is why we have fast food restaurants open until 3 3:00 a.m. causing heart disease to be rampant in the United States. Wow, very good comment. Very good comment. I'm learning about my errors in intermittent fasting. So thankful. You are welcome. Very, very welcome. All right, let me show you some more stuff, you guys. Uh some more interesting information. I know this is very sciency, so you got to forgive me for some of this stuff, but I just want to show you.

Okay, this is from Adventist study uh two, health study 2, because it will bust some myths, I think. Uh this is talking about subjects who ate one or two meals a day. I don't recommend eating one meal a day. Two meals is great. Okay, look at the results. Okay, look at the where it says results. It says subjects who ate one or two meals a day had a reduction of BMI. What does that mean? BMI weight compared to those who ate three meals. Um, okay. So then it says jump where it says breakfast. Okay.

Breakfast eater right in the middle of the paragraph. Breakfast eaters experienced a decrease of BMI. In other words, they lost more weight compared to breakfast skippers. Relative to subjects who ate their largest meal at dinner, those who consumed breakfast as their largest meal experience a significant decrease in BMI. Ah, conclusions. Our results suggest that in relatively healthy adults, eating less frequently, no snacking, consuming breakfast, and eating the largest meal in the morning may be effective methods for preventing longterm weight gain.

Eating breakfast and lunch. What meals again? breakfast and lunch five to six hours apart and making the overnight fast last 18 to 19 hours. That sounds like a lot, but you're going to feel less hunger. Remember, maybe useful practice strategy. You might be thinking, "No way I can do that. Oh, that sounds like way too long. 18 19." You're going to elevate GLP1 and you're not going to be paying $1,000 a month for Ompic or Wikov. I'm just saying you don't have to do it, okay? Nobody's going to force you.

This is all optional. Optional, optional. Okay, let's see what Ashley says. I wanted to share I came on I came on for one of your first shows. You shared the book of Goodbye Loop. Yes, I did share that and I read it and then committed to vegan whole food eating and have been using fasting from 400 p.m. to to 10:30 a.m. Wow. Well, good for you. Praise God. Thank you for sharing that. Thank you so much. All right. I want to show you guys that when they did the study, remember I told you about the uh people who started eating at noon?

They did do the study and what did they find? Let me show you. Uh if you go down to so this is an 168 also just like the people who did the other study. This is a 12week study. If you read that right there where it says design setting and participants where it says intervention they do say they started at 12 they uh ended at 8:00m. Okay. And down at the bottom, conclusions and relevance. It says timerestricted eating in the absence of other interventions is not more effective in weight loss than eating throughout the day.

What? I thought it was effective. So, how come they're saying it's not effective? You have to look at the you you have to look at the whole thing. Do look at what time they ate. So see see if you just if you just listen to the headlines you might say oh you know in the news they said that you know uh intermittent fasting doesn't work. Yeah. But what did they do? What did they actually do? They ate from 12 to 8. If you go back to the Adventist health study it did work. They did lose weight. What time did they eat?

breakfast and lunch. You see, that's why it's good to read the science. But if you don't want to read it, it's okay. You have people like me. I'll read it for you and then I'll tell you what it says. That's fine. No problem. I don't mind doing it. All right. I'll tell you something else. Circadian clocks and insulin resistance. H. What about it? Well, it just so happens that glucose tolerance is higher in the morning than in the evening. I'll repeat it. Glucose tolerance, what does that mean? Is highest in the morning?

Meaning when you eat in the morning, that food is going to be metabolized better, especially your carbohydrates So if you're going to have a big potato in the evening, your blood glucose in the morning fasting is going to be way higher. So people come to me to my program. I tested their their fasting blood glucose last Sunday. Had some diabetics with 200 something fasting blood glucose. I'm like, "What did you eat last night?" "Oh, you know, I was at a birthday party and the You know, I'm sorry.

I just can't, you know. So, you know, what should I do? Try to eat early. If you're going to have dinner, make it very light. If you're diabetic, eat a salad. Don't put any carbs. Seriously, I'm not saying that you need to go on a restricted carb diet, but right now you are not controlling anything right now. So, you are your insulin resistance off the charts. So, go on a whole food plant-based diet, but while your um your insulin resistance is bad, just don't eat carbs at night because your your fasting blood glucose is really bad.

So, eat a salad. Eat a salad or eat soup with vegetables or don't eat anything even better. But Oh, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. I used to work at a clinic and even when I would tell that to diabetics, no, no, no, no. You can't tell that to diabetics. Diabetics need to eat six times a day, every two hours, or else Oh, it's practically like they're going to die. But oh my god, no. Really? Is it that bad if they eat only twice a day? Are their blood sugars going to go all over the place? They're going to be out of control.

Really? Is it? What does the evidence say? Oh, they never wanted to compare evidence. But let me show you the evidence. Okay, you want to see the evidence? Let's see it. Let's look at it together. Eating two meals. How many? Wait, what? What? No. Wait, what? Two meals a day? Which meals? Breakfast and lunch is more effective than six smaller meals in a reduced energy regimen. In other words, they put them in a low calorie diet for patients with what? Type 2 diabetes. No way. More effective than six meals a day.

If you want, take a picture of this or come back later. You can look it up. You can actually read the study and see for yourself. Diabetics do better on two meals a day. I didn't say it. They said it. Here is their conclusion. You can look it yourself. Let's read it together. Eating only breakfast and lunch in a reduced and uh lunch reduced body weight. In other words, they lost uh they lost uh weight. Wait, hold on. They lost weight and uh HFC, which means um hold on one second. And what are they talking about?

Uh, hi. Hold on. One second. I'm sorry. I didn't prepare for this because I forgot what HFC um, well, let's just skip it for right now. But, uh, fasting plasma glucose, C peptide, and glucagon increased insulin sensitivity. That O GIS is an measured uh, measurement of insulin sensitivity. and more than same caloric restriction split into six meals. These results suggest that for type 2 diabetic patients on a hypoenergetic diet, eating larger breakfast and lunches may be more beneficial than six smaller meals a day.

What do you think? What do you think about that? What do you think? Are you convinced? You can tell your diabetic friends now. Wow. Now look at this one. Look at this with me. Prolonged fasting overnight. Prolonged fasting overnight was associated with 4% lower 2hour glucose measurement and 3-hour increase in nighttime fasting duration associated with 20% reduced odds for elevator A1C which is another measure for glucose. Conclusion, longer time, nighttime duration was significantly associated with improved glycemic regulation.

And all of that improved breast cancer risk. I don't know if you knew, but high blood glucose puts people at higher levels of cancer. Those two are connected. This is from the Obesity Society. Look at the times that they measured for the obesity society. Okay, this is for weight loss. I'm gonna blow it up really big so that you can see it. And in the paragraph right there says early timerestricted feeding can increase fat burning. Do you like the sound of that? Fat burning at night and reduce hunger swings.

Hunger swings. We already talk about talked about how that can happen. It has to do with the hormones. So it says reduce hunger swings. Two key factors in losing weight. So the fat burning and hunger swings in the nef which is early time restricted feeding. People eat their last meal in mid afternoon and don't eat again until breakfast the next morning. So there you go. I hope you have enough evidence. I hope that's I hope that's enough evidence. I hope that uh you have seen the benefits. Uh but you know what?

It's not just that. There's so I mean we can be all day. I'm just going to go through the legs very very fast because we've been here long enough. So I just I just want to tell you because I'm just you can see how excited I am about these things. But I just wanted to show you for instance for our immune system. I started learning about these things with COVID. COVID is back this year. So, you might want to know that intermittent fasting uh it could help you in as your for your defenses basically uh for your immune system.

uh it it re it basically improves the immune response and autophagy and I already said what that is is when your body basically cleans up your your cells eat the waste. So as a healthy practice calorie restriction in the form of intermittent fasting in several clinical settings has been reported to promote several health benefits including priming the immune response. So this dietary restriction also activates autophagy, a cell surveillance system that boost up boosts up immunity. It improves immunity.

Isn't that great? I think it's awesome. So let your friends know it improves immunity. Also, it reduces inflammation. So here's another one that also has to do with immunity because it's connected to inflammation. So the highlights are over here. You could see here at the bottom. So fasting reduces the number of circulating monocytes and healthy humans and mice. Fasting also reduces monocy metabolic inflammatory activity. So you could see you know the benefits for both inflammation reduces inflammation and boosts immunity antimicrobial immunity.

It even talks about over here. So the benefits are uh have been confirmed both for uh immunity and inflammation. Now look, it can also improves your lip lipids and cognitive function by the way. So this is talking about cognitive function and older adults. So for people who are older, uh yeah, they're going to need an appropriate diet. They need to be consuming the right amount of calories for their for their age. You don't want them to be losing weight. So make sure they eat abundant abundant amount of proteins and carbohydrates and fats.

But that doesn't mean that they're not going to benefit from doing intermittent fasting because it improves cognition, cognitive function. And it even says adults with mild cognitive impairment. It might improve, you know, their cognitive function. So why not? I think it's a great idea. All right. Um lipids, I was saying. Okay. Improves lipids. So we're talking about you know uh the um cholesterol and triglycerides. So that can help to prevent or manage or even treat cardiovascular disease. So we have been talking before about diabetes, pre-diabetes, high blood pressure and all these other things.

Oh, somebody's joining us from Papa New Guinea and South Pacific Ocean. So Johnson uh OBJ and R welcome and thank you for joining us. Uh so intermittent fasting for cardiovascular health. Excellent. All right. So see how I'm going fast through these because these are just I'm just mentioning things. This is for mental health you guys. So let me take myself out so you can see it better although it's hard to read. But the one on the left talks about the efficacy of fasting and calorie restriction on mood and depression.

So it helps with depression. The one on the right talks about the 8hour timerestricted eating for people. And and here's talking also about um mental health. But if you read the conclusion down at the bottom, it's talking about depression and sleep quality. So it's also talking about the benefit for mental health. So mental health and depression in both uh in both of these studies it found that it could uh have this positive effect for mental health. So I think that's great news. All right look at this.

This is I think one of the most amazing things that I have read about fasting in the last few years and is that people who have cancer and are going through chemotherapy this is amazing. I think it's revolutionary honestly if they do fasting for at least 48 to 72 hours and they can they don't have to do water fasting only. There's a there's a protocol called the fasting mimicking diet. So they're basically eating a low calorie but it's a very special diet that's been formulated to mimic the effects of water fasting.

So it's not just any diet. So it's a very special diet that has the ex exact same ex exact same effects as water fasting in the metabolically speaking. So if they either do water fasting or the fasting mimicking diet prior to chemotherapy, so like the couple days before they receive the chemotherapy, what it does is that it sensitizes the tumor cells to the chemotherapy, meaning it makes them more more vulnerable to the chemotherapy and basically they die more with the chemotherapy while at the same time protecting normal cells.

cells from the damages of the chemotherapy treatment. In other words, it protects good cells while damaging more the tumor cells which means that the people who are receiving the chemotherapy will have less side effects because the normal cells will be less affected by the chemotherapy which is as you know it's very very toxic. uh so it results in less side effects for patients receiving chemotherapy. So this has been quite revolutionary. Uh so they're you know they're studying it in UCLA and they're studying it in Italy because the main researcher is from Italy.

So he's written books about this and they're doing and honestly the fasting mimicking diet is so excellent that they're using it for other purposes as well not just for cancer but it was initially studied for the purposes of cancer. Uh so they showed you know the benefits. I I'll just skip the this graphic because it's a little bit hard to read but I'll go to the other uh other of these studies that they have done of the protective effects for chemotherapy using this fasting uh for you know the stem cells that are in these tumors.

So it will you know damage the stem cells from the chem protect the good stem cells and damage the stem cells of the tumors and the um in the tumors and doing while doing chemotherapy it and it actually helps with aging. So it's amazing. It's amazing all these things that I'll just go really quick because we're out of time. But I here's another one if you want to read it. you know, I'll just I'll just show it to you because it says fasting potentiates the anti-cancer activity of some of these enzymes.

And uh it's amazing what the what it here shows what fasting alone, fasting with um with chemotherapy and chemotherapy without fasting. And the best of all results was the fasting with the chemotherapy. And last of all, I want to tell you that the keto diet, interestingly enough, was invented fasting originally was shown to help patients with epilepsy. But the thing is children who have epilepsy well it's really hard to fast ch you know to put children on a fasting protocol because children are growing and how are you going to put children on a fasting protocol they need to eat right I mean that was the thinking so fasting children you know was hard so they were studying you know the um the fasting the effects of fasting and as you can see here the history of the keto diet or whatever and back in 1921 I don't know if you could see it up there they started using the keto diet KD instead of fasting it says right there 1921 because they found that the keto diet had similar effects to fasting.

So in other words, fasting was used first for treating epilepsy and then they found that the keto diet had a similar effect to the keto diet or to you know basically the the the keto diet has similar similar effects to fasting. And that's when the keto diet was invented. The keto diet today people use it to lose weight. It's the best thing in the world. blah blah blah keto diet. But the point of it all is that the original keto diet is fasting. I hope I made that clear. the original. That's why back here when I went back here, okay, intermittent fasting, see the title, a new and they're putting new quote unquote new historical strategy for controlling seizures.

It's not new because it was done way back in the past before they invented the keto diet. But the original keto diet is fasting. So when you hear, "Oh no, but the keto diet has this and that and the other benefit," always remember that all those benefits can be obtained from the original keto diet which was d which was fasting. And you do not need to put, by the way, those children who were put on the uh keto diet instead of fasting then had years later terrible consequences for their cardiovascular health because they were eating a highfat diet.

That's what the keto diet is, a highfat diet. So they were eating this, right? Eggs, meat, bacon, whatever. And so all of these things after many years of eating them, they were had the the side effects of having terrible cardiovascular health. So that you have to take into account when treating children for epilepsy with the keto diet. So you can obtain the benefits of the keto diet without the side effects by going to the original fasting. So, thank you for joining us uh today for this uh presentation.

I'm going to leave you with uh this wonderful wonderful verse. I'm going to give credit where credit is due. I obtained this uh beautiful graphic from Marilyn and Sarah Ministries. But the verse is from 1 Corinthians 6:19 and 20. How many of you know this beautiful verse? It says, "Or do you not know that your body is what? A temple of the Holy Spirit within you, who you have from God. You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. Glorify God in your body. Glorify God in your body.

Your body is a temple. You know, I just think this is so important nowadays more than ever because the first angel message says to give glory to God. This is part of the first angel's message. In my humble opinion, this is part of the first angel message. How do we glorify God? By remembering that our body is a temple of the Holy Spirit. I remember seeing many many years ago a headline from the Los Angeles Times, which is, you know, a big newspaper, uh, from California, obviously, and it said, "Why Adventists live longer than the rest of us."

This is Los Angeles time. Why Adventists? No, it said why Lomal Linda residents. And of course, people know about the blue zones, right? So said, "Why Lomma Linda residents live longer than the rest of us." This is the headline, you guys. And down at the bottom, the second line of the headline said, "Because they treat the body as a temple." What a testimony to the world. What a testimony to the world. I have the outmost respect for people in Lomma Linda who today they're 90 95 100 plus because they treated their body as a temple back in the 1950s and60s early when all those research studies the Adventist health study one Adventist health study 2 and all these other things and all these other studies that are on health adventist health studies were published.

They didn't exist. All they had was to the law and the testimony. That's all they had, you guys. They went by faith and they treated their body as a temple and they put Lomalinda literally on the map. Literally. Literally. Because when I go to those big conventions, you know, the conferences and there's thousands of people there, I'm talking huge conferences. 99% of them are non-adventists and they're talking about health adventist study, health this and that and blah blah blah and longevity and the whole food plant-based diet and you know, lifestyle medicine.

Health Adventist study. Is there any Adventist here in the audience? And there's like four of us amongst this sea of people, right? And we are like, yeah, oh, great. You know, like, congratulations. Basically, they know us. But you know what? It's sad. It's sad because I talk to people amongst the sea of people who think we all eat like that. It's kind of sad. I feel bad telling them the truth. I feel dishonest if I don't, right? I have to burst their bubble. And you know, we don't all eat like that.

We don't all follow the eight principles of health, which is almost the same as the American College of Lifestyle Medicine. It's almost the same principles validated by help by by the science of today. the eight principle or the principles of the American College of Lifestyle Medicine, every single one evidence-based. That's why it's they're showing them every single one of our principles. The eight principles of health, the eight laws of health, every single one has been validated by solid scientific evidence.

Solid functional medicine, integrative medicine, not so. Not so the yoga or the meditation all the others. No. Does not have the solid uh scientific base. No. No. But the eight principles of health from God. Yes. Every single one of them. Every single one. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. So I will leave you once again. if you have any questions. By the way, there's still a little bit of time, but Amen. Amen. Thank you. You're welcome for the information. Uh, so here's the last few comments. Uh, thank you for this information.

Amen. Wonderful class. Thank you for your comments. See how I'm I'm learning to be my own uh producer. I didn't know how to do this. Oh, but now I'm learning. Uh, so website right here. By the way, sorry you guys if I have not answered any of the if you've sent me in the last two weeks. So, I'm going to reveal something today. If I haven't responded any of your messages, if you have uh been sending me any messages, the reason why is because I'm going to give you some news. I got accepted into a program in Lumalinda University.

Can you believe it? my second doctorate degree. It's all a miracle. It's all providential, I have to tell you. Uh you know, when God is in something because I had applied to other things and I was like, "No, no, no." All the doors were closed. Every single one of those doors were closed. And by pure coincidence, I happened to, you know, bump into this program. Pure, you know, I don't know. I just have to say it's a little miracle that happened. And um the admissions were closed back in February.

I wasn't supposed to start next week, but God opened the doors. He knows why he's doing this. So I'm in not 2026, you guys. I'm in next week. So God knows why. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your congratulations. Thank you. Praise the Lord. He knows why he's putting me there. So, it's a doctor of public health, my second doctorate. So, it's a doctorate of public health uh in preventive care, which is exact same thing that I'm doing now. It's all, you know, lifestyle medicine. So, if I have not answered anything you have sent me in the last two weeks, it's because of that I've been like insane.

Uh just crazy. So, but anyway, thank you for congrat for your congratulations. But what I wanted to say is uh I'll check today. Tonight I promise if you send me anything to my website I will check today healthfor.net. If you have any questions regarding today's uh presentation I will make I always I have been faithfully making the PDF with the slides and sent it to the graphics team and they're all available so far. They have been and feel free to use them. Feel free to use any of the slides that I have shared.

If you want to make your own presentations with this uh material, do it. Share it. Share it. Make presentations. Have a little uh Bible study group or whatever. Have a ministry. Do it. This is the time. This message is for today. Now. Now. Do you know how much uh health insurance rates are going to start going up? It's scary. And the spirit of prophecy told us we're going to have to be our own doctors at some point. I think that point's coming because, you know, it's going to be hard. It's going to be hard.

It's going to get harder. So, we need to take control of our own lives. We need to prevent prevent prevent more than ever. The information we have is so valuable. The world needs it more than ever. It's time to share it. It's time to live it. A blind person cannot guide another blind person. So, we can't share something we're not living. I mean, we we need to experience it in our own lives. So, thank you for all the congrats. Thank you. Uh thank you for for being here. Oh, eye opening information.

I'm I'm very glad it's eye openening for you. Again, feel free to use it. Um let's see what this one says. Just about to ask if it's available it and it will be okay to share. Absolutely. Modern medicine is you know unfortunately sometimes you know they haven't been taught this information because just you know how it is. This the status quo is what they've been taught in school. They haven't been gi unfortunately some of it is trickling in now. You know some of this lifestyle medicine is trickling in into some medical schools and you know Lomal Linda is being pioneer in some of this.

The only masters in public health in whole food plant-based nutrition is in Lomol Linda University. I know people who are not Adventists who want to take it. So, praise the Lord. We are really, you know, working hard at uh at, you know, doing this. So, it's amaz. It's amazing. So, thank the Lord. You know, this by the way, this program I'm doing is 100% online. So, some people are doing it from all over the world. Is amazing. So if you want to download the 10day challenge is on my website health4today.net try for 10 days if you have not ever done a whole food plant-based diet.

I want to tell you that in this 10day plan, there is one or two pages on how to do intermittent fasting to turbocharge weight loss. If you're really having a hard time, if you're really, really, really having a hard time losing weight, which a lot of people do, it's in there. So, not only, you know, a plan. So, some people might need to do three meals a day to get started because sometimes doing everything all at once might be really, really hard. So, the original plan is three meals a day, but if you want to do two meals, I show you how to do it.

Okay? So, there's a two meal plan or a guide on how to do two meals as well. And there's, you know, shopping list, obviously, the recipes, all of that. So I call it the Daniel plan because Daniel chapter one shows you that in 10 days you can see the difference. I see the difference every time I do a round of my program. You know I do this for a living, right? You know I've told you I do this for a living. In 10 days I see people's the one biometric that goes down the fastest is LDL cholesterol. Number one cause of death in the United States and the whole world actually is cardiovascular disease.

Heart disease is the number one cause of death. And the number one risk for heart disease is LDL cholesterol. Did you know LDL cholesterol sticks inside of your arteries and starts to block them? Once one of those arteries is blocked, you get a heart attack. And the one biometric that goes down the fastest with God's diet is LDL It's amazing. The cure for the number one cause of death in the world is God's diet. I don't know. You see how passionate I am about this? is because it's just amazing. It's amazing.

It's amazing. It's amazing. Okay. What's the Yaka app? I've never heard of this Yaka app. Oh, maybe I have actually. It has helped me to avoid unhealthy foods, hair products, medicines. Well, I'm going to have to look it up. Thank you for sharing, Christie. Since my gallbladder was removed one year ago. I cannot. Yes, of course. So, so when your gallbladder is removed, you guys, you have nowhere to store that um liquid that helps you to uh digest the fats, right? Where are you going to store it?

Now, the gallbladder is what stores it. So, now you cannot eat large amounts of fat all at once. Do not do it or you're going to live in the bathroom. You know what I'm talking about, right? So, yes, you cannot eat many things you did in the past. That is correct. Amen. Says pin pen pen. You're welcome, says Christie. Thank you for sharing. So, that's I'm going to put it up again. So, the app is called Yaka Yuka. Yuka Yaka Yuka. I'm gonna look it up. Thank you. That's very very helpful, very interesting.

Okay, you guys, 1 hour and 39 minutes. Sorry, I get as you know, so excited about this stuff. All right, so promised I will make the PDF for this. Use it, spread the word. Um, yeah, feel free, feel free. And once this uh recording is done, it's going to be on YouTube. Uh Living Mana Online Church, Power Part of the Lamb is going to be on Facebook. I'm going to put in my Facebook as well. And you can share it. Uh if you are connecting on on uh YouTube, make sure to like, what is it that you have to do?

Always like and share, subscribe to the channel, all those nice things that you always hear because it helps the channel to grow and reach more people. See, I learned to say all those the right things. Oh, somebody shared something. Let's see. Walter White for thought was great. Oh, I'm gonna have to check that up. All right. Yeah, Walter White. Awesome. All right, you guys. Let's finish with prayer. Okay, so let's bow our heads and let's finish with a word of prayer. Thank you Lord for everything you do for us and thank you for giving us the health message and giving us the blessings of fasting so that we can improve our health, clean our bodies and thank you for helping us to understand the importance of treating our bodies as a temple.

We ask for your Holy Spirit tonight that it may give us wisdom and understanding and also the motivation to do the right thing so that we may glorify you in our bodies. be with everyone connected tonight and also everyone who will see this recording in the future so that you this message will spread and more people will learn that you have designed our bodies in such a way that it can heal itself. We ask and pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you again everyone for connecting. See you in two weeks.

By the way, oh, I can't forget to tell you that in two weeks I will be I was impressed to talk about nutrition and the brain. This is one of my favorite topics and I usually do two aspects of nutrition in the brain in one presentation, but I was impressed that I need to split it. So, because they're two both too important. So I'm going to talk about first about neurodeenerative diseases such as uh you know dementia and Alzheimer's disease and all these things first. So that's in two weeks but in four weeks I'm going to talk about mood disorders.

So depression and anxiety for the most part. So that's in four weeks. So um September 30th Alzheimer's and prevention of Alzheimer's for the most part but also a little bit of Parkinson's disease as well. So those are neurodeenerative diseases and September 14th I will talk about mood disorders and nutrition. So this is all related to nutrition. Okay. So nutrition and the brain September 30th and October 14th. Uh those are the two coming up. So put in your calendar, share the word. Thank you again.

Good night everyone and God bless you. See you in two weeks. And uh good night and thank you for connecting. God bless you. Good night.