Good afternoon everyone and welcome back to True Health Tuesday. My name is Maria Jose Haml and as promised today we're going to do food addictions and temperance. So uh I welcome uh everyone who is connected and I also invite you to share this um presentation with your friends and family so they they also connect uh because I think this is going to be very interesting for a lot of people. Uh we're kind of putting together a lot of information that we have been talking about for a while. As you remember, we had been talking about diabetes for a while.

We had been talking about the all the different conditions that are connected to diabetes. All the, if you remember, all the different complications that come, you know, with the pre-diabetes, with the insulin resistance. So, these are things that might even happen without diabetes. Without the pre-diabetes, people might not even know that they have insulin resistance. If you don't remember what we're talking about, I invite you to go back and watch the previous presentations. But as we talked about the last presentation that I gave, which was two weeks ago, uh sometimes it's hard to put together or to start these um these changes in our lifestyle.

And why is that? So, we talked about self-control. We talked about starting new habits, but even that sometimes is hard. So, today we're going to talk about a more serious reason why that might be hard, which is food addictions. And we're going to talk about temperance because that's uh well, that's something important that we talk about in our church, temperance. and we're going to talk about that in relation to food but also we're going to go beyond that uh as well. Uh so to start uh first we're going to pray and then we're going to welcome everybody who is connected and then we're going to go straight into our topic for today for true health Tuesday.

So let's start with prayer. Let's uh I invite everybody to um uh bow your heads and start with a prayer. Okay. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for this opportunity to once again get together and discuss very important topics about how to take care of our bodies. And we ask for your blessing upon this presentation and that everyone who needs to hear this message may be able to uh hear it that this me message may reach those who need to uh hear this important topic uh and uh be with everyone who is connected tonight and who will hear it later in Jesus name we pray.

Amen. So tell us tell us where you're connecting from. So welcome everybody who is connected today. I'm not even sure yet uh if I know how to tell by the way this is the first time that I am going to be somewhat in charge. It's a little scary for me you guys. So wish me luck or pray for me because this is new thing for me you guys. So tell me where you're connected from. And uh thank you for connecting. Okay. Thank you for s for being with us. I always enjoy uh your comments. So this is always uh very enjoyable for me when you put your input.

That's very very good um for me because I think it's very very important that we all connect. Okay, that we participate. So let's uh begin. Well, as you as you know, I always begin saying that what we're going to talk about, a lot of it is, you know, scientific. A lot of it has to do with might, it might even sound medical, but it's not meant to be medical advice. So, I just want to let you know this is all educational. And as you also know, I always start off by saying, some of you already know, you know, I've already told you in the past that uh and and some of you are already are already know this, but some of you might be connecting for the first time.

This is why I always repeat it that I always my rule is always Isaiah 8:20. Many of you hopefully also go by this rule as well which is to the law and the testimony. If they speak not according to this word is because there is no light in them and I apply this to health. I hope you do too. So when you hear things out in the world, in the uh internet, social media, wherever, make sure I recommend you apply this rule to everything. Okay? Um so that you are keep your eyes open and so that everything you hear regarding health, nutrition, everything needs to be according to the law and the testimony which the way I interpret I hope you interpret it as well is the Bible and the spirit of prophecy.

I hope you remember that too. and that um also I believe in this that everything needs to be a science have a scientific basis. All right. And to me what you're looking at on the screen, let's change it like this so you can see it bigger. Um this is the hierarchy. So the lowest level over here is the lowest level of scientific um evidence. So when you just hear people talking and give it their opinion on social media for instance that's not your best uh source of evidence. Okay. You you want to look at good uh scientific evidence is the top level.

Do you see the top level? Those are good that's good type good kind of scientific evidence. Okay. So now let's uh also remind you here's another one that I think this is all review for many many of you is science what Ellen White has says about had said about science you know I think I've said this in the past that people have told me in my own YouTube channel why do you say why do you use so much science we have the Bible okay yes we do for us believers the Bible is number one but sometimes times we get to talk to people who are not believers.

So yes, we know that the Bible is number one in our lives, but when you talk to people who are not believers, it's not going to be their number one. And also look at what Ellen White said. A knowledge of science of all kinds is power because God is the creator of science. Science is empower and science and the Bible are not against each other and it is in the purpose of God that advanced science shall be taught in our schools as a preparation for the work that is to preede the closing science of earth uh the closing scenes of earth's history when that might be when do you think that might be happening do you think now Maybe I think a practical knowledge of the science of human lives is necessary in order to glorify who?

God. And I ask you one thing is glorifying God part of the first angel me first angel's message. What do you think is glorifying God part of the first angel's message? I think it is. That's my opinion, but I think it's uh also supported by the uh word of God. All right. This is all review as you remember, but this one I don't know if you remember this slide from last time. This is a review from last presentation. You might or might not have seen it. This is also going to be important for this presentation.

Okay, please put your eyes on the screen because this is going to be very important for today's presentation as well. Look at the top. One of the strongest temptations that man has to meet is upon the point of what? What's that word? Appetite. One of the strongest temptations that man has to meet is upon the point of appetite. This is in the book Councils on Diet and Food. Quote number two, Satan is constantly on the alert to bring the race fully under his control. Fully under his control. And now look at this statement.

Look his strongest. That is a very very important word. his strongest hold on man. Not his number two number two strongest hold on man. His strongest hold on man is through the His strongest hold on man. I'm just emphasizing this because this is extremely important for today. This was written over a hundred years ago, but I think it's more true today than what it was a 100 years ago. appetite. And this he seeks to stimulate in every possible way. Wow. I don't know about you, but I think this is true.

even more today than it was 100 years ago. I don't know what you think. What do you think? Wow, we have people from I'm barely looking at the chat. Sorry you guys from Greece and Rancho Cukamonga. So, welcome you guys. Me from Greece and Eric from Rancho Cukamonga. So, welcome everyone. All right, let me read the third the third one. The controlling power of what you guys appetite will prove the I hope you're reading with me. the ruin of thousands. When if they had conquered on this point, they would have had the moral power to gain the victory over every temptation of Satan.

Hello, Robert from Labot, Texas. Welcome everyone. Welcome. Ruin. Yes. Ruin. Ruin. Ruin. Are you reading this with me? Do you see how important? Do you believe that this is more true today than it was 100 years or over 100 years ago when this was written? I hope I hope you're paying attention. I don't know if you believe it too, but I think it I don't know. Oh, a popupka. Is that how you say a popup club? Florida. Jeff, thank you for joining us. Jeff, amen and amen. Yes, Robert. I think so, too.

Now, appetite. Okay. Today we're going to talk about very I think it's very serious because we were talking about last uh presentation about self-control how to build habits to apply all the things that we have talked about in the previous four presentations regarding diabetes pre-diabetes insulin resistance and how all those things are connected to all of the complications of insulin resistance which include hypertension high cholesterol obesity and all the different things, you know, even fatty liver, all those things.

And why is it so hard sometimes? Because I worked as a nutritionist at a clinic. And I would counsel people on nutrition, and I would do the questionnaires, you know, the 24-hour recalls, all these different things. I ask people about their diets and see, you know, people eat junk food all the time, drink sodas, eat chips, you know, eat fast food, all these things. You think people didn't know that this was junk food? Yeah, I could tell you 99% of people know that junk food is junk. You think people don't know?

You don't You think people don't know soda is bad for them or that burgers are junk food? People know. So why? And also remember when we talked about uh uh I don't know if you remember but we we we talked about a doctor that was studying like cigarettes and he himself smoked also and he this was a doctor that discovered that smoking caused uh uh lung cancer back in the 30s and 40s. Do you remember that? Why is it so hard to do what we know that is good for us? In fact, this isn't the Bible. Even Paul talked about it.

Where is it? The good that I know to do, I don't do. Where is that? Some of you know. Tacoma, Washington, Wendell Vines, thank you for joining us. Thank you. Good welcome everyone. But where does uh Paul talk about this his own struggle with this where if you know put it in the chat today we're going to talk about what is addiction because what I'm going to talk about is food addiction in particular but it applies to all addictions. Romans 7. Yes, Robert. Thank you. The uh verse is Ro is Romans 7 uh 19.

Uh Romans 7:19. He himself struggled with this. The good that I know that I need to do, I don't do. And the bad thing that I know that I can't that I should not do that I do. Yes or no? Don't we all struggle with that? Yes or no? We know we need to stop eating junk food, stop drinking the soda, start eating more salads, go for walks, and we don't do it. Why is it so hard for a lot of people? It's a food addiction in terms of the um the nutrition aspect of it. I know that I myself am food addict.

I guess recovered or recovering because you know we should never claim victory over things that are always addictive right I think now what is an addiction I'm going to say this whether it's food cigarettes drugs alcohol it's all the same thing even behavioral addictions as you know because there's such a thing as a substance addiction addiction, substance use disorder as they call it. Now, you can be addicted to a substance such as a tobacco, you know, there's nicotine in it. Alcohol, that's a substance.

A drug is a substance, but there's also such a thing as behavioral addictions as you know. You know, here the picture might show something like an internet addiction. I I would say today social media could be an addiction. But the one recognized formally in the DSM, the you know the book about you know um mental disorders or whatever is gambling. Gambling is an addiction formally recognized as uh as an addiction and it's it's not a substance. Obviously you don't eat gambling, right? So it's not a substance.

It's a behavioral addiction. So it's the same process in the brain. All the addictions have the same sort of you know five main categories uh or characteristics I should say. There's a number one irresistible a irresistible compulsion to continually use this substance or continually behave. Right? There's irresistible. you have to do is compulsive and there's a need to increase the amount. Your brain is adapting to the small amount and then needs more and more and more which leads to a dependence.

A dependence your we'll talk about why that happens. It's a it's it's a brain thing. Okay. Your your brain is there's neural adaptations. We're going to talk about what that is. And number four, there's a high tendency to relapse. As you might already know, my dad tried to quit smoking a million times. In fact, there's science that says that smokers need to try about 30 times. I remember reading that. Also, laziness, convenience. Yes, also laziness. think that is true because you know that that's a that's a very true statement Emmy thank you if you're running out of time that's why we talked about planning last presentation right because you know okay if you haven't planned if you haven't planned your meals that's why planning is so important okay so if you haven't planned your meals for the week and here you you are at work it's 1:30 2:00 p.m.

and you're running out of time and you you're you're you're busy or whatever at work and now you're hungry, you're just going to go to the the drive-thru. What are you going to do? It's much easier, more convenient, as Amy says, to go to the drive-thru. It takes it literally takes two minutes. It's convenient. Okay. High tendency to relapse. the literally it's these um addiction um programs, you know, treatments. The rate of relapse is skyhigh, sky high. It's just terrible. Okay. And number five, harmful effects either for the individual or for society or both.

I would say alcoholism is probably the worst when it comes to the effects for society as you probably already know that right? You probably already know. Okay. So what about food? Can food be an addiction? Can food have the same five characteristics we talked about just right now? The five things I just mentioned. Can food do that? Many people would like, okay, no come. That's an exaggeration. What do you think? Can food do that? Those things I just said, can it cause dependence? An irresistible compulsion?

Can it have these, you know, the need to increase the amounts, a tendency to relapse? All these things. Is that an exaggeration? Am I really exaggerating these things? Now when we talk about addictions, let's just talk about how it happens. First of all, what you're looking at here is what they call the dopamine pathways. This is how addictions happen in the brain. Okay? This is the physiological scientific way how addictions happen. And what we're looking at here is the part of the brain where the neurons that actually cause you to feel pleasure are located.

Okay. So the pleasure you absolutely Yes. Okay. So some of you agree with me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. I think you're right. Nowadays we have comfort food. Yes. No wonder we call it comfort. It's in the name. Now that's a very interesting way you you you that what you're saying right here is very interesting. Comfort. It gives us comfort. Comfort. Pleasure. Where does that come from? It comes from dopamine. As you some of you might already know this, dopamine is a neurotransmitter that helps us to feel pleasure.

Basically, that's what it is. Bottom line, very simple. Pleasure. Now, pleasure is not a bad thing, you guys. It's normal. We have to actually feel it because if we didn't feel pleasure when we eat, we wouldn't eat. If we didn't feel pleasure when we have sex, we would never have it. We would never reproduce. And the human race would have finished by now. Pleasure reward centers of the brain. Exactly. It's something we absolutely is normal. It needs to be felt. It has it's necessary. It's normal in the right amounts.

Okay. But what I want to um I want to help you see is where these uh neurons start, which is right here in the middle in the middle. I don't know if you see right there in the middle in the center where the little circle is. And then these neurons actually extend extend to different parts of the brain actually like the prefrontal cortex the the the part of the frontal lobe of the brain and then other parts of the inner part of the brain as you see. So these uh neurons have extensions that are actually very long and actually go to these parts of the brain.

And therefore when these neurons that cause pleasure or help us to cause pleasure because they produce dopamine when these neurons are overstimulated, hear me out, overstimulated. When they are overstimulated by things that cause exaggerated amounts of artificially, they can damage the parts of the brain that you see here that you see here that these neurons reach. And what what what happens in these parts of the brain? What happens? Look in the blue parts of the preffrontal cortex. This is a very important important part of the brain right here in your frontal lobe has to do as it says right here in this chart with motivation.

This is part of the brain where your executive functions of the brain are located. It's also where inhibition is found. In the green is where your re uh reward prediction where your pleasure is. We already talked about but in the also the purple cognition, cognitive control, self-control. The red learning and memory. That's where habits happen. Learning and memory. Habits. All of this is damaged when these neurons are overstimulated sort of distribution. Yes, we humans tend to abuse and remove restrictions that are meant to help and protect us.

Yuber cow. Yubercow. I hope I'm saying it right. That's a very interesting name. Thank you for joining us. Welcome. Now, you know how neurons connect with each other? You probably know there's a connection between neurons. They're not touching each other. There's something called the syninnapse between neurons. And there's actually a little gap, the synaptic cleft. This is one neuron. And this is the next neuron. Right? So the the the space between the neurons is called the synaptic clft. And this is how the neurotransmitters are passed on from one to another.

They're released from one neuron and passed on to the next. And the way that the next neuron catches the dopamine that's sent from the last neuron to the next neuron. The way that the next neuron catches it is through the receptors. And so you see down in the bottom here it says dopamine receptor. Do you see right here? Dopamine receptor is how the dopamine is absorbed so to speak by the next neuron. That's how it's accepted by the next neuron. Okay? Remember this because this is how dopamine is passed on, how it's um transmitted.

Remember that. Okay, this is how it's distributed. But what I want to say right now is that this dopamine here, God made it. God made it. This is part of creation. God made us to feel pleasure. It's not that dopamine is bad. Dopamine in itself is not a bad thing. In fact, do you know or did you know that the word Eden Eden as in the garden of Eden, the word in Hebrew means pleasure. We were made to feel pleasure in a place of bliss, in a perfect place of beauty, of happiness, of pleasure, but not extreme, not perverted.

See, that's the problem. After the fall, we perverted everything, including God made us to feel normal pleasure. What's normal pleasure? The pleasure that we feel for instance when we read a good book or when we eat our favorite fruit or when we hug our loved ones when we go for a nice walk. These are normal things that make us feel normal amounts of pleasure. Okay, normal. But human has perverted everything. So when we engage in things that are excessive ex anything excess is bad but excess there's things that stimulate the brain in excessive ways.

They stimulate the reward centers of the brain excessively. So the amount of dopamine you produce with heroin is way more than what you would produce with even sex, which is probably the one activity that gives us the most amount of dopamine in normal situations. And that overp production of dopamine is damaging for the brain. And the repeated action of that activity that overstimulates the brain is So the brain has to protect itself from that activity from that overp production of dopamine. the brain put puts on the brakes.

And what it does is diminish the amount of those dopamine receptors that I showed you a little while ago. Remember the dopamine receptors that I showed you? The connection between the two neurons, the dopamine receptors, what the brain does takes them away. And that is what it does to lower the amount of dopamine in the brain. So I want to show you something interesting. Wait before that since 2021 COVID damaged my alactory bulb. Oh my. I'm sorry to hear that. And food. Yes. A lot of people had that.

I'm so sorry to hear that. Wow. I'm so sorry to hear that. My lab work was great. A1C, cholesterol, kidney function. Oh, I'm glad it's better now. is that I hope that's what you're saying that you're better now. But a lot of people lost their sense of smell and taste because of COVID. CO is not a respiratory disease. It's a systemic virus. It causes damage in all tissues potentially because it's not a respiratory disease. It's a systemic disease. So I we still have to be careful with it. That's the point.

Okay, let me show you something. Okay, what we just said is that the brain has to protect itself from over stimulation. So, what you're looking at here is a PET scan of the brain uh in different situations. So the extreme left is a normal brain and the red the red shade the red shade over here is the dopamine receptors. Dopamine receptors normal amount of dopamine receptors all the way to the left. That's a normal brain. The brain in the middle is of a person who has been using cocaine for one month.

Do you notice something in this brain? Welcome Andrea from New Brunswick, Canada. Thank you for joining our presentation from New Brunswick. I hope I said it right. Brunswick, Canada. Do you notice here what's going on with this brain in the middle? What's happening? Remember the red means dopamine receptors? What is going on? What I mentioned just a minute ago is that the brain has to put on the brakes. When we engage in activities that overstimulate the brain artificially, whether it's a substance or a behavior, what we said in the beginning of the presentation is that there are two types of addictions.

It could be substance use disorder is when we become addicted to a substance or it could be a behavioral addiction because gambling is not a substance. internet addiction, porn addiction. These are not substances, but they are just as addictive. And they cause the same issue in the brain. What are you looking at here in the middle? What's missing are the dopamine receptors. Why? Because the me just said it, no dopamine receptors. Why? Because the brain has to protect itself because it's it's a flood of dopamine.

It's too much. It's exaggerated. It's damaging. So, the brain has to protect itself. So, it puts on the brakes. It takes away the dopamine receptors. And what we see right here, right on top of me, right here, four months of cocaine, no dopamine receptors. So there's no dopamine receptors. So this is what happens you guys though. Now this person this person unfortunately when they eat a bowl of strawberries when they go for a walk at on the beach when they read a nice book they're not going to feel any pleasure.

There's no way to feel pleasure anymore. What are they going to need? They're going to need that over stimulation again. The only way to feel normal is to use a drug. The only way to feel normal is to use the drug again. Oh, I'm sorry. You're not better. Oh. Oh jeez. Your name your name is Herve. Ah, okay. Thank you. Well, thank you and and uh thank you for joining us and I'm so sorry that you still haven't recovered stopped you from eating the food you used to eat. I'm so sorry. Jeez. Ah, that's long term.

I guess that's a form of long co I guess. Jeez. So sorry. H hope you recover someday. Some people it last couple years a few years. So here we see what has happened. Okay, this is so so these are the stages. This is how it happens. This is how it all happens. The first time a person tries a substance. Let's say they do it because it's a choice. It's a choice the first time, maybe the second, maybe even the third. It's a choice. They're seeking pleasure, right? It's a very pleasurable thing to consume heroin.

I'm sure. I don't even know, but I'm sure they get these this sense of ecstasy, euphoria. It's an exaggerated amount of dopamine. So, they repeat the action. That dopamine makes them want to do it again and again and again and again and again and again. That repeated pattern causes the loss of the dopamine It causes this tolerance over here right says increased tolerance the brain that's called the neuro adaptation. The neuro adaptation is the dopamine receptors going down down down. So the brain starts to adapt, tolerate the substance more and more and more.

But now it becomes a dependence because now it needs the substance just to feel normal. That's what the addiction is. It needs the substance just to feel normal. It's a dependence. And guess what? It's not just heroin. It's not just cocaine. Obviously, alcohol, nicotine, caffeine. Let's be honest. Let's be honest. I'm sorry. I don't mean to offend anyone, but caffeine is a dependence. Yes or no? Some people need the two cups or else, right? Can food be addicted? Can food become a dependent? Sugar.

Let's look at this comparison. Let's look at this comparison. Top left normal brain. Tolerance is mistaken for control, says Robert. going from I can handle my fun to now the rabbit's got the Yes, you lose the control. You no longer have self-control. That's right. That is correct. Self-control is gone. Your brain is damaged. The brain is literally damaged. The self-control is this part of the brain. And remember the the neurons got to this part of the brain and this part of the brain is literally damaged.

All right. Look at the top left normal Top bottom cocaine user. Do you see it? Do you see the cocaine user? What's happening? Where are the dopamine receptors? Are there any? What's happening to dopamine receptors with cocaine user? Not there. What's happened to the alcoholic over here? Bottom right. Do you see very little? Almost none. Brain of what are you looking? What do you see? Maybe not all obese persons have a food addiction, but this person does. This person does because this person has no dopamine And I can tell you from the literature just from the general population 20% is what they have you know some research has found 20% of the general population has food addiction amongst uh the obese 50 plus Most definitely.

Yes. Food is an addiction. We SDA never talk about That's right. We never talk about it. Even within the plant-based community, I've gone to the conferences at American College of Lifestyle Medicine and the they they the public somebody in the public asked the questions and I've never seen a satisfactory answer from presenters to this day. They don't know how to handle the question unfortunately. Lord have mercy. I know. Lord have mercy. So what I'm seeing here from this and I think you would agree also here is that food can definitely be addictive.

And the the I'm telling you I wrote my dissertation on this. I have over 360 um references. There's plenty of scientific research on this. And what the research has found is that over um overly palatable food, what they call highly palatable food, we're talking about processed food, highly processed foods, mostly highly processed foods, food that has high amounts of three things more than anything. Fat, sugar, and salt in combination are highly stimulating to the brain to the same pathways as addictive drugs and addictive behaviors.

The exact same pathways. So the food manufacturers know this. These foods are engineered. Obviously they are not going to say, you know, the food manufacturers are not dumb. They're not going to say, you know, oh, we make foods addictive. Well, they're not going to say that. No one is ever going to admit in the food industry that they make the food addictive. No one's ever going to say that, you guys. Ever. Ever. But they know what they're doing. They know what they're doing. They've known it for decades.

Now, my question to you is, could this be the reason why we have uh or at least partly the reason why we have the obesity epidemic? I don't know. Do you think? Oh, yeah. Cocaine is strikingly similar. I don't know if you were here. Um, obese and cocaine are strikingly similar. So, last presentation, this is just review from last presentation. How many of you remember I talked about this study? This is just the headline. study. Sugar hidden where? Where? Where's the sugar hidden? What kind of food?

Healthy food. Junk means trash. Yes or no? I'm just using the word. What's a synonym for junk? All right. Also, these foods right here are not sweets. I'm just saying. All right. Sugar hidden where junk food is how many times? How many times? That can't be. Sounds like a huge exaggeration, doesn't it? The media must be exaggerating. Come on now. Eight times more addictive than cocaine. Nah. Okay. Well, let's read the actual study. Here you go. Take a picture. Look it up. You can read the study. It's not just It's a study.

It's not the only one, by the way. There's many. Here are the researchers. I showed you this last time. There's a little rat and a a bag of Oreos. I don't think they gave the rats Oreos. This is just, you know, for show. But and I remember the cartoon I showed you last time. It's illustrative of what happened. They basically made the rats addicted to cocaine first and then once the rats were already addicted to the cocaine, they put them in some kind of enclosure and then they gave them or they had both the sugar and the cocaine available to them.

And the rats went to the sugar eight times more than to the cocaine even though the cocaine was available and they already were addicted to it. That was the uh experiment. And last time I also mentioned that in nature sugar and fat are never together. Remember in nature they're not together. You either have fat and seeds and nuts and avocado and olives and coconut. All of these things have fat, natural fat with its fiber, by the way, with other nutrients like vitamins, minerals, phyitochemicals, antioxidants that act synergistically to give you health.

And the fiber protects you because the fiber carries some of that fat out of your body. I don't know if you knew that, but it's true. I don't think you should ever eat the fat without its fiber. It protects you. Anyway, I digress. The sugar, same thing. The sugar comes with fiber. It's never industrially refined in nature. It comes with vitamins, minerals, phyitochemicals, antioxidants. The fiber protects you. It carries some of the sugar out of your body. You should never eat the sugar without its fiber.

They never come together. When you put them together, it overstimulates the brain. That mixture, you guys, is like a bomb for your brain. That's what processing does. The processors, the the food manufacturers, they know what they're doing. They're not dumb. They know. By the way, I want to mention something real quick. I always mention it in this presentation. I just wanted to mention the levels of addiction we have reached in this country and this is a way to illustrate it. Okay. Satan is subverted uh the humanity to the point of appetite.

Yeah. I hope you saw the first u few quotations at the beginning of the presentation. I read those quotes about the appetite. So if you haven't if you didn't connect early enough, you can go later when it's posted to the recording and watch watch it at the beginning. Very interesting. I love your curry. You can make curry healthy. I think uh junk food. Yes. Yes. Yes. Fasting is very very good. Yeah, definitely. Uh someday I'll do a whole presentation of fasting. Maybe that could be my next presentation.

H I'll think about that. Could be it. Uh okay. Yeah. What was I going to say? Oh, yeah. Um, okay. Illust, this is I think an example of how bad things have gotten this country, but this has been around for a while. Okay. Did you know that in a city? I won't even say the city. I think you know if I just say since city, you know what city? There's a restaurant. Of course, this is just a theme, okay? The theme of the restaurant just to it's for purposes of, you know, uh being, I don't know, provocative, just to draw attention.

Uh but the name of the restaurant is Heart Attack Grill. Yeah, this is a place. It exists in Sin City. Uh and this is the menu, you guys. The smallest burger is called single bypass burger. Don't go there. Okay. Some of you are like, "Oo, that sounds good." No. No. I know you don't. I know you don't. Um the the one with the two patties and two pieces of cheese and two slices of bacon or whatever. It's the double bypass burger. Triple that. It's called the triple bypass burger. quadruple bypass burger.

And you know what? This is just the menu they publish, but you can go up to eight literally. So, they have I don't know the world uh record for the most calories in the world or something for their burger. I think it's the one with the four patties or six patties. Something like 9,000 calories. I'm not kidding. Look it up. It's horrible. Okay. Uh, of course they have their shake that has, you know, basically sugar, chocolate, and butter. That's it. Uh, they have their flat liner fries with deep fried and pure lard.

Then you get your candy, your soda, your cigarettes, and your beer. How nice. Uh, here's an actual burger. What it looks like. I think this is the four or six. I don't know. Okay, that sounds great. Um, also they had a spokesperson uh young young man who actually was 575 pounds and uh he was 29 years old when he passed away in 2011 at age of 29 from complications of pneumonia. not a healthy person at age 29. He was a spokesperson. Um yeah, this this place was not a healthy place at all. Uh yeah, this is outside of the restaurant.

Do you see what's parked outside by the door? Do you see? Yeah. It's not functioning. It's just for a show. Okay. It's an ambulance. Do you see it? Um, what else you guys? Um, they have a coronary dog also in their menu. You see it over there? Coronary dog by the shake by the Yeah, the butter fat shake. Also coronary dog. Great. What else? They have an at least a warning on their door that says caution. This establishment is bad for your health. At least they let you know. That's nice, Um because their other spokesperson uh a gentleman that went also by patient John um also died the same day he ate at the restaurant.

He had a heart attack later that day at age 52. I think 2013 he passed away. So that was patient John. Uh but Dr. John is the owner. He went by Dr. John. His real He wasn't a real doctor. Um he just went by doctor. But it's all for show. Like I said, he dressed like a doctor, but he's not really a doctor. Um yeah, it's all good. It's all Do you see what's going on here? Uh so the the if you go they'll put a uh hospital gown on you because that's the requirement. You have to wear a hospital gown to eat there.

Yeah. So everybody wears a hospital gown. What do you think? Here are the uh waitresses. They all dress like nurses. And Oh yeah. And do you see what's on the left? The picture, the left picture is a scale. Let me go back. It's a scale. It's a cattle scale because if you weigh more than 350 lbs, you eat for free. All right. So, yeah, there it is. Full of people. That's what we promote or that's what they promote anyway. Uh yeah, but that's that's our country. Uh what's going on? What has been going on for a few decades now?

What do you think? Food manufacturers including junk food people, restaurants, everybody, they know about this concept. Have you ever heard of it? The bliss point. What's the bliss point? I'll tell you what the bliss point is. I'll just illustrate it in this way. Okay, I'll just illustrate it. Let's pretend you have a cup of coffee. I don't recommend coffee, but this serves well for the illustration because coffee is bitter, right? So, if you have a cup of coffee with no sugar, you give it to people.

Most people won't really like it. There's a weird person who drinks their coffee with no sugar and they like it. Okay. But most people are like, "H, doesn't taste good." Right? But what happens when you eat when you add a teaspoon of sugar and you you know stir give it to the person. Okay, that tastes better. What happens when you add two teaspoons of sugar? Stir. Give it to the person. Oh, that tastes much better. What happens when you add three teaspoons of sugar? Stir. Give it to the person. Well, now we're talking.

That tastes really good. Most people like it between two and three. Well, nowadays, who knows? Because, you know, Starbucks puts like 10. So, all these Frappuccinos or whatever, they probably have changed most people's palettes. So, most people might need even more than three teaspoons. Who knows? But, you know, normal people, I guess two, three is just about right, I guess. But what happens if you put five teaspoons of sugar? For most people, that's too sweet. What happens if you put 10 teaspoons of sugar?

Forget it. I don't know about you, but I think most people that would be too sweet. So, do you see this curve over here? No sugar, no pleasure. You put a little bit more, more pleasure, more pleasure until you reach the perfect amount and then you put more and the pleasure starts going down. Okay, let's talk about salt. Just to give you an illustration, let's say you have a pot of vegetable soup that you're making at home. You put all your veggies, your carrot, your onions, your celery, your whatever.

Bunch of veggies. No salt. Most people taste the soup. Doesn't taste like much. Can we add a little bit of salt? Okay, let's add a tiny little pinch to big pot. Well, that's not enough. Let's add a little bit more. Okay, it starts going up, right? The pleasure you feel when you taste it. Little bit more. Little bit more. Little bit more. Okay. Boom. Perfect. This is good. But let what happens when you add the whole salt shaker into the pot? Too much. It's too salty. So, do you see how it goes up up up?

Perfect. And then you add more and then it starts going down, right? So, for every food, hear me out. For every manufactured food, every processed product, you go to the supermarket, you go to the grocery store, there's thousands, literally thousands of products there from companies that hire food scientists. That's what they do. They engineer this food. This is what they do, you guys. They manufacture, they engineer the food. They calculate the bliss point for every single product. With the fat, the curve doesn't look like this.

The fat, it looks like this. The more the better. You're never going to eat fat all by itself. As long as you combine it with sugar or starch, the more the better. the fat adds to the mouth feel. If it's crunchy or if it's creamy, then it's creamy. You know what I mean? It's either crunchy or creamy. That's what they do. They calculate it. They know exactly what they're doing. That's what they do to make the food as palatable. That's what they'd say. Palatable as possible. They're not going to say addictive, obviously not.

So, this is what they do to stimulate the brain. They know what it does to your They know. It's It's not a secret to them. It's not a secret. These foods are made intentionally. intentionally. I know it sounds like a conspira con like a conspiracy. It's not. It's simple economics. They're corporations, you guys. They have to sell more every quarter. It's Wall Street. They have to respond to Wall Street, not to you, not to your doctor. Who do they have to respond to? Wall Street. That's who they have to respond to.

They have to sell more every quarter. How are they going to do it? How do you think they're going to do it? How are they going to get people to buy more and more and more and more? Average consumption of Americans 3600 calories per person. That means every child, every adult, every woman, every man, everybody. I don't eat 3,600 calories. I can tell you that much. Somebody's eating my calories. Not every not all 3,600 calories, obviously, but somebody's eating my share. Maybe if yours too, and they have to eat more next quarter.

This is simple economics. It's not a conspiracy. So they have to make the food as palatable as say addictive. So Yale University, Yale, they've studied this. They have a center for obesity studies or something rather. They have made a scale of addictiveness of foods. They really did this because they've studied how addictive the foods are. They made a scale of addictiveness and Michigan, I think the University of Michigan took that scale. They did a study with their own students and they found the 20 most addictive foods in the country.

You want to know what's number one? Tell me what do you think out of these foods? What do you think is the most addictive food in the country? What do you think? Put in the chat. They're promoting death, says Eric. This place is still running. Yes, it is running. I looked it up just before this presentation because I wanted to know. They're still running. They have a website. The website doesn't have their menu. It's weird. So weird. They're weird. I have to say they have a YouTube channel with music videos.

It's so weird. Anyway, the unhealthier the better it seems. Yes, because that's what sells you guys says. I mean, yes. Downward parabolic curve. Yeah, that's what it looks like. Weird. Uh, they play with the amounts of sugar, salt, and fat more than normal amounts. That's correct. That's exactly right, Emmy. Wall Street and taste buds. Yes. Yes, that's right. And that is why the food tastes weird when you eat them separately. That isn't true. So, nobody has guessed yet. What is the most addictive food?

Number one, do you want to know? Do you want me to tell you what is the most addictive food? Okay, are you ready? Okay. If you guys are not going to tell me, I'll tell you. Or has anyone said maybe? Yes. Oh, I'm not even looking. Sorry, you guys. Okay. Somebody said hamburgers and fries. Okay. Somebody said soda. Nobody said potato chips. Somebody said it. Woohoo. Robert for the win. Robert said it. Robert said it. Pizza. That's right, you guys. Numero uno. Do you see it right here? Number one, pizza.

Number two is chocolate. Emmy, you got number two. Fast foods are right here. See so many. Eric, look at you. You got it. Because fast food's all over the place. Pizza is a fast food if you think about it. Fries, cheeseburgers, they're here. Chick fried chicken is a fast food if you think about it. Can you believe it? Poison soy sauce. I lied to myself when I says at least I'm not using salt. It's a lot of sodium. I you can get low sodium soy sauce. Uh soy sauce. Also, I recommend getting Brax liquid aminos.

That's a better choice for soy sauce. So, junk food. Yes. All over the place. You see right here? My goodness. Pizza and chocolate are my weakness, Robert. Well, now you know why. It's not your fault. It's not your fault. They hook you. They hook you and they know what they're doing. Do you know why? So, okay, you guys, why do you think pizza is number one? Why? What's in pizza? What are the ingredients? Think about this. Processed foods. Yes. Okay, Eric, you're right. All of these are processed foods.

All of them except well, let's see. Cereal, popcorn. Well, popcorn is somewhat processed, but they, you know, popcorn they put butter, salt, so yeah, it's processed. So, rolls, cheese, every single thing. Steak. Well, steak. H meat. I guess it's not processed, but it's meat. All right. Chocolate, ice cream, cookies. Everything is processed here. All right. um made chocolate a chocolate pizza. They made a chocolate pizza kill you faster. Wow. The dough has sugar. Tomato sauce has sugar. Very good, Robert.

Thank you. Yes, you are correct. But ah did you know I don't know how many of you know this and I don't mean to offend anybody. Please don't get mad at me. I'm just the messenger you guys. But did you know that the cheese in the in the Okay, the casing is the protein chocolate pizza. Yeah, I know you guys. Crazy. Cheese. There you go. Cheese. Robert, thank you. The cheese. Okay, so when they make So the milk has two types of protein, casein and whey, right? In the process of making cheese, they concentrate the casing and the way is a leftover.

Now they know how to make money out of it because they sell it to you as a powder and you're like, "Oh, I'm going to go to the gym." And you buy, you know, that's how they get you to spend your money now. Okay. The casing is the protein left behind when the or the protein that makes the cheese and it gets concentrated in cheese. So cheese has much more concentrated casein than the milk, right? We already talked about casein in cancer. Go and watch that if you want to know what it does regarding cancer.

Go watch that presentation. Okay, that's cancer. What does it do in regards to addiction? Did you know that when this protein is digested, it gets d becomes another molecule called quesomorphine. Quesomorphine. What does that sound like to you? [Music] It's an opiate. An opiate. Much milder than morphine of course, but opiate nonetheless. That's why you think of cheese stretchy. Yummy. Some people have a harder time quitting cheese than meat. When I go to churches, I kind of kid around with people and I say, you know, a lot of Adventists become chesitarians.

Just saying. Don't get offended. I'm just saying. I'm just joking you guys. Okay. Why other reasons? Refined flour. Somebody said the dough sugar. Well, flour itself is a refined carbohydrate and it acts just like sugar. The sauce definitely has sugar, real sugar in it. It's a high calorie density food. All high calorie density foods by nature will be addictive. Cheese is a c morphine from cow. That's correct. That's right. And cheese is cancer-causing. Yes. If you haven't seen that presentation, highly recommend watching it.

Okay, now what about the chocolate? Sorry to give you the bad news if you don't want to hear it. I guess you can close your ears for the next two minutes. Or do you want me to tell you even? Well, okay. Sorry to give you the bad news, but here it is. Obviously, the chocolate has sugar and fat combined. That in and it of itself is addictive. It has caffeine. If you didn't know, surprise, surprise. Chocolate has caffeine. Small amount, but it has caffeine nonetheless. More amount or higher amount of theob broine.

Theobo bromine is another brain stimulant. It's much milder than caffeine, but caffeine has 10 times more of it than caffeine. So there you go. Combination of both. Then number four, it has phenolthyl ethylamine. What the what in the world's phenolethylamine? I'll tell you. Phenolthylamine is a small molecule and like it's alphylanate alpha methylated derivative. Do you know want to know what it's alphylated derivative is? Oh, it's a substance called amphetamine. Oh wow. Okay. So amphetamine is derived of phenolethylamine.

Well, it has stimulating effects that lead to the release of biogenic amines such as dopamine. There it is. So anyway, it's a stimulating for the it's a stimulating substance for the brain. That's all you need to know. Don't even remember you don't need to remember the name. All you need to know is stimulating. The last one, number five, anandmide. What in the world is anandmide? Want to know? Okay. Anandmide is a brain lipid that binds to, listen up, canabonoid Canabenoid. What does that sound like?

canaboninoid receptors and mimics the psychoactive effects of plant derived canabonoids. Plantderived Do you see now why chocolate is so yummy? Cannabis. That's right, Robert. Does that apply to cocoa as well? Yes. All of these substances come from cocoa except for the sugar. The sugar is the one thing they have to add because cocoa or co cacao is the original substance that chocolate is made out of. Cocoa is just the toasted cacao let's say. But cacao is extremely bitter. So sugar in huge amounts are added to cocoa cacao to make it taste palatable.

Everything else is part of the actual plant. Hemp weed. That's right you guys. So there. Okay. So let's finish this up. If you are like me terribly addicted to sweets or used to be anyway, what do you do? How do you get out of this trap? How you supposed to survive life? Even when you do go to church, you guys, every single potluck, churches have I think I said it last time, the table. You know what I mean when I say the table? Because you have the other tables, regular tables with the yummy food.

Even I I get invited to do health seminars and some churches are nice enough to have healthy food in their potlucks when I go out sweet. They have nice, you know, salads, you know, nice whatever. But there's always the table over there. You know what I mean by the table? Some of you know what I mean. It's like crack cocaine over there. For some people at least, not everybody who drinks alcohol becomes alcoholic. Not everybody who eats sweets becomes a food addict, but some people do. So some people who go to church, there's a crack cocaine over there.

I'm just saying. All right. So what to do? Well, the first thing is just like the 12 steps. First, you have to recognize it's a problem. It's a problem. It could be an addiction or at least a very bad habit at the very least. It's the dessert table. See, you guys know what I'm talking about. Oh, somebody asked, "How about the effects of dark chocolate?" Dark chocolate is even more concentrated in caffeine, in the broine, all of the things. It's just more concentrated. It does have more of the uh antioxidants but also has more of the stimulants.

So you have to weigh the pros and cons. All right. Step number one, even 12step programs, you have to recognize you have a problem. Number two is practice abstinence. Practice marijuana. In the beginnings, I would always feel sick the next day after church. Emmy says that's why I stopped eating the potlock. Oh my goodness. I would take my own food. That's very smart. That's a very smart thing to do. Darth Vader said that table. I didn't say it. I didn't say it. Darth Vader said that table. Well, you're not wrong.

Some of those churches says it looks like Darth Vader did it. I'm not I'm just saying. I'm just saying. Marijuana and that table. Yeah, chocolate. All right, you guys. It's smart to take your own food, even your own dessert if you need to, you know, I just want to read you a very famous quote, very famous. Hopefully, you know this quote. I'm going to blow it up so that we can all see it. Let me see. There it is. Pure air. This is from Ministry of Healing, page 127. Pure air. Number one. Number two.

Sunlight. Number three. Do you see that word right there? Number three. Oldfashioned way to say Abmiousness. Whoa. What in the world is obstinius? It's just abstinence, said the old way. Rest, exercise, proper diet, the use of water, trust in divine power. These are the true what? The true what? The true remedies. These are the eight principles of health, you guys, that our church has been teaching for over 100 years. And abstinence is one of the eight principles of health. It's one of them. is one of the true remedies.

Absence is one of the eight true The eight principles of health. The new start principles. It's one of them. Did you know? Did you remember? Did you forget? Let me show you what it does to the Remember this image all the way in the left is a healthy In the middle we see an addict. Remember how the addict had no dopamine receptors. Remember that? That's why it's missing the orange or the red. remember right now. Look at the brain over here on the right. Let me make myself Okay, look at the brain on the right.

It says after 14 months of what, you guys? 14 months of what? Abstinence. Look at the top of the slide. Brain what? What does it say the title? Brain what? Brain recovery. The brain can recover. The brain. Let me repeat it. This is very important. In fact, this is crucial. This is the best thing you can ever hear. This is great news for anyone who is addicted to anything. This is great news. This is great news. Amen. Amy. Amen. Praise the Lord. The Lord made our brains plastic. Meaning it can heal.

It can recover. Recovery with abstinence. Yes, Robert. Thank you. Recovery with absence. He gave us the solution. And he gave us the remedy, the cure. Abstinence is one of the eight principles of health. There is the true remedy. 14 months of abstinence. What do you see in this brain? What do you see back? Do you see the red back? The person is recovering their dopamine receptors. It clears the body from the toxins. Yes, thank you Emmy. Yes, that is correct. The body can heal. The brain can heal if we give God a chance.

You have to give God a chance. He gave us the true remedies. That's the foundation for health to the law and the testimony. That is the truth. Don't look at anywhere else. Look at that first. The dopamine receptors, yes, I mean, the dopamine receptors are coming back because God is healing this brain. The person might not even know, of course, that God is healing this brain. They might not even know. They might not even know, but it's one of the eight. Isn't that amazing? Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord.

I'm just so happy we're part of this wonderful group people that has this message. Number three, adequate nutrition. What nutrition? Yes, of course we're talking about food. Food food addiction, but even all addictions honestly add the nutrition is so important. Why? Because when it comes to food, you need to nurture your body with vitamins, minerals, phyitochemicals, antioxidants. I don't know about you, but I've been watching Netflix lately. I had forgotten about the terrible, terrible show back in the early 2000s called The Biggest Loser.

I don't know if you ever watched it. That terrible show. It made people lose weight. Extreme extreme weight loss. I don't know if you've been watching. It's horrible. Okay. But it did remind me that people that used to weigh, you know, 300 lb, whatever, would eat, you know, to get to that kind of, you know, uh, obesity, some people would eat 5,000 uh, uh, calories a day. There was also another show back then called uh what was it? Uh 600 lb life. I've mentioned it before, I think. My 600 lb life.

And I remember them mentioning 10,000 calories a day. How in the world can you eat that many calories? Well, here's the thing. When you're eating junk food, there's a reason why they call it empty calories. You can be eating 5,000, 6,000, 7,000, 10,000 calories a day and still be deficient in these things because it's empty calories. You're not getting enough vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, phyitochemicals. Your body is still deficient. So, your body is still craving food. You need to nurture your body appropriately with enough nutrition.

That's part of it. It's not all of it, but it's part of it. Also, this food has fiber. Fiber provides bulk. It fills you up. Junk food does not. But oil. Oil is very, very concentrated in calories. It uses very little volume. Fiber is bulk. It fills you up. The vegetables have very low calorie density. 100 calories per pound. Oil is 4,000 calories per pound. Literally the most calorie dense food of all. See the difference? So, we have to eat in the more nutrient density side of the scale. Now, most people nowadays are trying to eat keto diet, carnivore diet.

I say those are the worst when it comes to food addiction, when it comes to weight loss, for diabetes is the worst. The worst of all, I'll tell you why. For food addiction in particular, I think I mentioned it for diabetes pri previously, but for food addiction, when you eat a high protein diet, it turns out that the amount of one amino acid goes down in your brain because this amino acid is the hardest one to absorb into the brain. It's called tryptophan and it competes with other amino acids for absorption into the brain.

And when you eat a lot of meat or a lot of animal protein, there's too many of other amino acids in those foods. So tryptophan gets left behind. It's too much competition. So the amount of tryptophan in the brain actually goes down with a high protein diet. And I'm talking about animal proteins. There's too much competition with other amino acids. The amount of tryptophan in the brain goes down. It just so happened that tryptophan is the precursor for serotonin. And serotonin, as you might know, with low amounts of serotonin, people might get depression.

And people with depression tend to eat more, eat more, eat more. So, it's not a good idea to eat high protein, highfat, low carb diets. It's well known that people who go on keto might get irritability, for instance. It's not a good idea. You might crave carbs even more. With the more carbs, and of course, I would recommend the good carbs. Tryptophan levels go up, serotonin levels go up, and you feel a lot better. But I would eat the good carbs because people with food addictions have to be careful with sugar and flour.

These can be triggers to eat more. So you have to avoid refined carbohydrates. The those are the worst the worst things are the refined sugars and the flour. Flour even flour is like sugar. All right. Okay. So, next thing to do is to follow all eight of the healthpromoting uh the healthpromoting habits. So, all eight of the principles of health. Uh so, one time I I was asked to compare the all eight of our health promoting uh principles of health with the six from the American College of Lifestyle Medicine.

Um and they're very similar because even now the medical community recognizes the importance of our principles of health. They're based on science. Now that means that we have to create new habits just like I talked last week. So this is from last week. Just a reminder of the importance of forming habits, good habits like exercise, like eating salads or whatever. These are should become habits. So they are automatic. Okay, automatic. Remember how we talked about this last week. Put a new hab. If you take something away, you have to put something in there.

Otherwise, you create a vacuum. Don't create vacuums. If you take something out, put something new in there. Uh a good thing, you know? So, put a good a good So, if you take sodas out, maybe put uh string uh sparkling water in or something, you know what I mean? So something to fill that vacuum um and not just leave a vacuum there. And of course try to make those automatic like exercises. So when you don't do it, you're like, "Oh, something is missing." Just like brushing your teeth, it should be just like that.

So it becomes automatic. So when you don't do it, something's missing. And we talked about planning last week too. And even today we mentioned it so that you don't end up running to McDonald's, you know, when you're too hungry, lunch or dinner. Last week I mentioned make like a little spreadsheet or something for the week if necessary and plan ahead your breakfast, dinner, lunch and dinner, even the days you're going to exercise, what kind of exercise, all of this so that you know, put it in the calendar.

Make it non-negotiable. If you're like, "Oh, let's go to this or that. Let's go uh shopping at the mall." No, no, no, no. I have an appointment at the gym. You know, whatever. Make it Make it because your health is more important. If you're not there for your family, who's going to be there for your family? That's got to be a priority. Okay. Next is get enough health uh sleep. Because by not getting enough sleep, you alter your appetite hormones. I didn't put the slides. I should have put the slides that show that when you don't get enough sleep, your appetite hormones are out of whack and you get more appetite and you get hungry and you gain weight and you put yourself at higher risk for diabetes.

So, don't skip the sleep. You need seven hours minimum if you're an adult. If you're a child or teenage, you need minimum 8 to 10. You could not skip on this. If you want to have self-control, you have to have it or else you're going to be hungry and that's bad for food addiction, right? Intermittent fasting, which you're a food addict. you have to first do everything else so that you have you have you you have a food uh you have a good foundation because fasting can be triggering for some people but if you have everything already and you're in good shape you can do uh intermittent fasting because watch this okay this is amazing it's hard to believe but look at what it says okay look these people ate this study they did at the obesity society obesity society okay and they did this thing called early time restricted feeding, which is the intermittent fasting that you eat early.

Not the kind you start at noon and end at 8. That's terrible. No bueno. Okay, look at this. They start eating at 8, they end at 2. Two. But look at what it says right there inside of the circle. Restricted eating 8 to two. improves fat burning. Okay, that's great. At night and reduces hunger swings. Reduces hunger swings. That's very important. If you want more self-control and less food addiction, you're not going to believe this. Or maybe you already know. In that case, you are going to believe it.

Look at this, you guys. I'm going to blow it up a little so you can see better. Look, same times. This is a different study al together, but it's the same time. Same time. Okay, 8 to two. Look at the benefits. Okay, first on the on the left, it's talking about insulin. So, this is great for uh for diabetics because it improves your sens sensitivity to insulin. So that's why they're they're they're making less insulin. They have better insulin sensitivity. Their pancreas is working better. That's what's all all the stuff on the left over here.

It's and on the right it says blood pressure went down. Oxidative stress went down. So all the damage in the body. So their uh inflammation all that stuff went down. But look what it says about appetite. Do you see? Are you looking? Appetite in the evening went down you They're they're less hungry in the evening even though they're not eating in the evening. By the way, it says they're fasting triglycerides went up. People get, "Oh, no. This terrible." That's because they're burning fat in the morning.

Remember the thing about furning burning fat in the morning. So, their fat is mobilized. They're in fat oxidation, meaning they're burning fat. So, the fat shows up in the morning in their blood. That's what's happening. Okay. But I wanted to show you the appetite aspect of it. Their appetite goes down in the evening. That's very important. That's very, very beneficial. It's crazy. Look at this. Did I show you this before? No, I don't think so. Okay, look at the dark bars. Those are the people who are fasting.

The white bars are the people who are not fasting. Pay attention. Desire to eat all the way in the left, top left. Desire to eat in the evening. Dark bar. Do you see it? Dark bar in the evening is way lower in the people who fasted and they're not eating in the evening. How is it possible their desire to eat is lower? Same thing in capacity to eat. In other words, they're too they can't even eat. Their capacity to eat is lower in the evening. The people who are not eating in the evening, they stopped eating at 2.

Their hunger, see the right, top right, in the evening is lower than the people who are eating. They're less hungry than the people who are actually eating. Okay. Bottom left. This is how do you explain this you guys? How do you explain this? The people who are fasting are feeling fuller than the people who are eating in the evening. I didn't I didn't make this up. It's in the data. It's in the research. the stomach fullness is they feel fuller and it's all of all of this is happening because fasting helps your appetite hormones including GLP1.

By the way, do you know what GLP1 is? GLP1. Have you ever heard of ompic wovi? That's what those medications do. They cost $1,000 a month. Fasting does the same thing. And Ellen White said without knowing any of this science over 100 years ago, it's better to eat two meals instead of three. What? Two meals, breakfast and lunch. If she wasn't inspired by God, then what was it? How did she know? Okay, so you guys are saying, "I've been diabetic type one since I was three, and I learned about triglycerides and glycemic a few years ago.

I wish I knew about these when I was a teen." Yeah. Yeah, I hope you watched the series. We did a series on diabet on diabetes. Everything has this blue light to disturb our sleep rhythm. I hope you're covering it with tape or something or put a book in front of it because you're right. Uh hopefully we don't have any lights to disturb our sleep. That's very very true. Okay, let's finish up you guys. The next thing is to incorporate strength training because that is the best way to change your metabolism.

By incorporating strength training, I think we talked about this before, you are changing to a healthier metabolism like the one on the left with more muscle mass. And that is super important in order to uh increase the metabolism so that you have a healthier weight. Most people who have food addiction sometimes they're triggered by restricting calories. That's how it all starts. And they're restricting calories because they're dieting and they're dieting the very unhealthy way. How do you solve all of this?

By having healthy weight in the first place. And so you if you're eating healthy and you're exercising the correct way, you are not going to need to restrict calories. See how it all starts from just the beginning. If we're doing it the right way from the beginning, eating right and exercising, none of this would happen. But we go on these unhealthy extreme diets. We starve ourselves and then we end up binging later. And then we end up binging on high calorie, high sugar foods. And then we go in this cycle of eating these unhealthy foods and then we starve ourselves and then we binge again and we and everything goes out of whack.

It's bad. By the way, this kind of uh exercise you can do at any age. Oh no, I'm too old to go to the gym. No. No. This lady from Linda, California. Want to know what age she is in this picture? Want to guess? 101. If she can do it, you can do it. By the way, if you're older than 65, you should be doing it because anyone older than 65, their highest risk is a fall. And once you fall, your risk for dying is way higher. Anyone who's an adult should be doing it if they're not. I think I mentioned last time if you're if if you haven't done any resistance exercise, Google power up in 10.

It's free from the state of California, from the power department of health. It's the PDF. Download it. Anyone can do it. I was told eating nuts at night troubles your sleep. Nobody should be eating anything heavy at night because if you're eating at night, here's what happens. You have food in your stomach. Therefore, your all the energy that should be going into cleansing, into repairing of tissues, detoxing your brain, all of this energy is going to go into digesting the food. None of the repair the or you know some of it will but not all of the energy that should be going into the reparation rejuvenation detoxification some of that energy is going to be diverted.

So all the healing that should be happening at night is not going to be happening. Your stomach should be empty when you go to bed. So no digestion in the stomach should be happening because otherwise some of that energy is going to be diverted. So no, no one should eat before going to bed. Hopefully more than four hours should have should be uh in between sleep and eating. Hopefully more than 4 hours before. Okay. Uh so I would not recommend eating before going to sleep. Definitely not. And uh let's see what else.

If you don't like going to the gym, how about some of this then? It's kind of like going to the gym, doing some of the gardening. That's if you have some, you know, space to do it, obviously. But if you have a garden, you get tomatoes and some veggies or whatever, and you get to work out. Not too bad, right? Okay. Last but not least, if you have serious addiction issues, seek help. Do it because sometimes you're not going to be able to do it by yourself. Some of that brain damage is serious and the part about uh self-control, willpower, all of that is now gone.

You might need professional help. Of course, you need the help of God first of all, and God might direct you to the right person. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. He will direct you. He will show you the right path. But there are some addictions that need professional help. I don't know if you know this, but for for instance, some people who are addicted to alcohol, if they quit on their own, it could be lethal in some cases. So, there are some, you know, professional help, behavioral therapy, support groups.

Some people need to be hospitalized, some people might need medication. Even therapy, I think, is very, very important for some people. same with food addiction. It might be very helpful to get therapy, counseling, overeaters, anonymous groups. There's such a thing, you know. So, group med uh group support, whatever is needed in some serious cases, seek it and get it. Okay, I'm going to finish with this. Um, so whatever you eat or drink or whatever you do, do it all to the glory of God. Another reminder that the health message which includes of course nutrition, what we eat, the diet, but also exercise, also sleep, rest, right?

Also water also obviousness also known as abstinence today or temperance which true temperance is to abstain from all things that are bad and the good things do it with moderation. That's what true temperance is. Not all things in moderation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's Satan's temperance that wants you to do the bad things in moderation, too. No, no, no. True temperance is doing good things in my donation and abstain from bad things. That's true temperance. So all of these things are part of the health message.

And all of them whether you drink, eat, whatever you do, do it to the glory of And doing those things to the glory of God, to glorify God is part of the three angels message more relevant than ever today. Today in preparation for the last uh scenes of Earth's history today. Nowadays, now more than ever, the world out there, people out there are sick. Especially after CO, pandemic might be over, but CO is not gone. CO is not gone and still causing trouble. People are getting sicker and sicker and sicker because every time we expose ourselves to it, we get sicker.

So, people need help. People need this message. People need to know how to take care of their body. People need to know how to overcome People need help. We have the message. You know, it's amazing. I work with so many nonvenists and they all know about Lumalinda. They all know about the blue zones. They all know about the advent studies. They all know that they think we all do it. You guys, they have a way over inflated um uh view of Adventist. We have to live up to it. It's time. It's time. It's time because they need it.

It could be our ministry. If you guys are looking for a ministry, here's an idea. Start a support group. Start a cooking class once a month, once a week, whatever. Start something. And invite people. Invite your friends. Invite your co-workers. Invite your family. Show them. Show them how to heal. They can heal their brain, their body, their mind, their soul. And God can help them. We do have a sickening lifestyle but God is our healer and our savior. So I want to invite you to to uh pray so that we can end our presentation for today.

I want to thank everyone. Your participation has been super nice and valuable and very engaging. Thank you for for your comments. They've been very on point. Thank you so much. Uh yeah, you guys are great. Thank you so so much. And uh let's end with a prayer. And you can share this. Feel free to share all the information that I have um uh that I have shared with you. Feel free to use it. Yeah. Use it. Use it for your own presentations. Yeah. Have a little, you know, at home get together and present it.

Have a little discussion afterwards if you want. Anything. Uh it could be a a great conversation starter even. So, all right, let's have some prayer. Let's pray. Thank you, Lord, for this evening. Thank you for the opportunity to share this information. Forgive us Lord if we have not glorified our bodies. If we have not glorified you through our bodies. If we have not taken care of our bodies as we should as the temple for your Holy Spirit. Help us, Lord, to take that decision, to make that decision, to take the to take this message and take it to those who need it, to be your hands and feet.

There's so much misinformation out there. Lord, help us to take the truth, the true health message, the one that can really heal, the true remedies out to those who need it. If we if we need to be the ones to start something, guide us, Lord. Give us your wisdom. Show us what we need to do. be with all of us tonight. All of those who are connected tonight, all of those who will watch this in the future. I ask for your Holy Spirit to guide them, to heal them if they need to be healed. for anyone in their family that might need healing.

Lord, I ask you to be with them as well and be with us the rest of this week and uh for the rest of the members of of Living Mana online church. Bless this church, Lord. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. Amen. And amen. And thank you for for sticking around. And I know it's a little long, but I really wanted to to to share this with you because I think it's so important. Share, like this video, and share this video so that way more people get to know and engage with the channel so it gets, you know, more views and stuff.

But thank you again. Thank you for being with us. Thank you for for all your support. And uh two more weeks. I'll just give you the date once uh so that you are ready. Uh it'll be the 16th, September 16th. I will announce what will be the the topic because I forgot now but it will be September 16th. So tell your friends to connect and thank you once again for being here and God bless you. God bless you everyone. Bye bye. Good night.