Hello friends, welcome back to True Health Tuesday. Uh I am Maria Jose Hammel and I am so glad to be back with you again for another um presentation about health and uh I I promise you that we would be talking about diabetes and pre-diabetes and actually as you could see on the screen other metabolic diseases and um that's where we will be beginning today because actually we will be doing four of these presentations, maybe even five if we for some reason are not able to cover everything on uh on all these you know four Tuesdays that we will be doing.

It won't be four Tuesdays in a row as you know we do every other Tuesday. So it was going to take us about eight weeks to cover this. It we might go on a to a fifth presentation just if we are not able to cover everything. But I just want to make sure that I give you all the information that I have because I've been studying diabetes for so long. I have all this information in my head that I want to share with you. So I want to make sure that you have it. I don't want to forget to pray. So we're going to go ahead and pray first.

Okay. So let's start with a prayer. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for the opportunity to be together to have this wonderful uh technology that allows us to share this presentation with people all over the world. And we ask you to be with us to bless this presentation that everything that we share together that may be blessed by you and that may be for the benefit of everybody who is connected in Jesus name we pray. Amen. I want to let you know that I have been studying diabetes for a long long time.

So, uh it's not something new for me. In fact, it's one of my, as I guess you would say, my one of my specialties. Uh so, I am super excited to share this with you. In fact, I have this same uh sort of series in Spanish and I've had it for a long long time in my YouTube channel in Spanish. And this is the first time this is going to be like uh in English on YouTube. So I'm super happy that this is going to be, you know, uh published in uh in this in these YouTube channels. So super happy about that.

I just want to get started with the disclaimer that I always give that this is not meant to be any kind of treatment for anybody. So I don't want anybody to think that this is going to be, you know, somehow you uh some some kind of prescription for anyone. It's not. It's just meant to be educational. number one. Number two, as you always know, I always go by the uh spiritual rule that I always follow, which is to the law and the testimony as Isaiah 8:20 says, I hope you follow that as well. And I also wanted to let you know uh aside from the spiritual guideline that I always follow for not always not only not only my spiritual uh teachings as if you will but also for nutrition and health.

I also follow this to the law and the testimony. But I also believe in the importance of scientific um scientific knowledge. And as you see at the bottom, opinion, experts opinion is kind of the lowest quality of uh of scientific um evidence if you will. At the top you see reviews, metaanalysis. That's the highest quality of scientific evidence. And if if you wanted to know why I think that this is so important, this is from Christian education. The top uh quotation says, "An knowledge of scient of science of all kinds is power and it is the purpose of God that advanced science shall be taught in our schools as a preparation for the work that is to precede the closing scenes of earth's history."

That's right now, right now, right now. I think so closely is health related to our happiness that we cannot have the latter without the former. A practical knowledge of science of all of human life is necessary in order to glorify God in our bodies. So that is why I think scientific knowledge is so important and to follow scientific evidence is so important. And God wants us to have common sense. He wants us to reason from common sense. I just wanted to also share that with you. I always share this with everyone but I just wanted to be at the beginning of every one of my presentations because not always uh people who have seen my previous presentations or you know people who are connected today have seen my previous presentations.

I just wanted to always share that. But to begin today, I want you to I wanted to share with you why um why you know my background is when it comes to diabetes. About 15 years ago, I started working at a clinic in Watsonville. And uh this is it. Well, it doesn't look like this anymore. Uh but this is Salutarente and it's a clinic, a community clinic in Watsonville, California. It's been remodeled so it looks a little different right now. But I was a um I was a clinical nutritionist for five and a half years and I worked with uh with diabetics a lot.

In fact, I worked in the women's health area. So I worked with a lot of gestational diabetics but type two diabetes as well uh for many years. So that's one thing that I did for many many years. But also I wanted to show you the fellowship hall of the Wattsville 7th Day Adventist Church. And I was a member for many many years until transfer of my membership to living mana. So right before I transfer my membership to living mana uh online church, I was a member to of the Watsonville 7th Adventist Church and for about 10 years we did a reversing diabetes um uh seminar and it lasted for six weeks every year in the fall and uh we invited members of the community.

Most of the people who came to our seminar were non Adventist. Between 20 to 30 people came every year. We used to do it two times a year in the beginning and then we had to move to once a year only because of my work. Actually I was too busy to do it twice a year but we used to get about 20 25 to 30 people every year. Most of them are non-adventists uh who would come. So by the way health could be actually used for evangelism. I think I've said this many times, but health is evangelism. FYI, I hope you're listening.

I hope you're paying attention to what I'm saying. Health is evangelism. Uh so all these people from the communities to come to our classes about six weeks on how to reverse not only diabetes but obviously pre-diabetes and all the related conditions that we talked about the first day. If you haven't seen the first presentation that I gave for True Health Tuesdays, it's called 10 Days to Better Health. I hope you're watch it if you haven't seen it. I will talk a little bit about that uh here because it's a little bit related to what we're going to talk about today.

But yes, a blessing for the community. You can do this too, by the way. If you want to work with your local church, you can do this. Uh you can take any of my uh slides and use them to give presentations at your local church. So anyway, that's what we did for about 10 years. We did also some food demos as part of this. Um and uh anyway, so that's what we I did too. This is a picture of me um translating from Dr. M. Milton Tesy. Mil Dr. Milton Tesky worked for Weimar Institute and Weimar Institute is right here in uh in California.

It's uh owned by 7th Day Adventist and they have a program called New Start. I don't know how many of you have heard of New Start. Put a one in the chat or put me or put something in the chat if you heard of the New Start program. New start, the letters, the eight letters of New Start represent the eight principles of health taught by the Seventh Day Adventist Church as taught by Yes, one. Okay, we have a one already. Yes, thank you, Harriet. uh as taught the eight principles of health as taught by the seven church given to us by the um by the uh spirit of prophecy.

We have another one. Yes. Uh so new um the Weimar Institute uses these eight principles of health to for a for a program they actually use people come and stay for I think two weeks. I don't remember exactly, but a lot of people come there with their chronic conditions and they stay there. Well, Dr. Tesy worked for them actually giving giving these um seminars at churches during the weekends. He would do this for many many years. I went with him to Honduras and I translated his presentations. Uh I went as a nutritionist as well.

So, I gave some of the nutrition presentations. There was another nutritionist who went with us who gave the uh cooking demos. I translated for her but I translated his medical presentations. I learned a lot from him. I incorporated that knowledge into my presentations. This was many years ago about seven or eight years ago. And so I learned from him from the wear you know that he had. So I incorporated that into my knowledge. By the way we went there we did a six-day seminar. We invited people from the community.

This was in rural Honduras, you guys. I thought in Honduras for No, there for sure, for sure. For sure. People in rural Honduras would definitely not have all these conditions that people here in the United States have. You know, people live in the country over there and, you know, grow their own food. Oh, we have another one. Yes. Um, I thought for sure people in rural Honduras would not have diabetes, high, you know, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, all these chronic conditions. Boy, was I wrong.

Even though people live in the country and very natural settings over there, grow their own food, they have the same things, you guys. Diabetes, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, high weight. And so, we did the exact uh same things we teach over here. We taught people how to exercise, how to eat better. We would take their uh blood blood glucose in the morning before they ate breakfast. Then we took them for walks. Then we did presentations. We gave them, you know, good food, plant-based. Like I said, I uh did some of the translation.

Here's the other nutritionist from the Fresno 7 Adventist Church. And I translated for her. So anyway, I learned a lot from these people and that's how I learned a lot of the knowledge that I'll share I'll share today. And then as I said the first presentation that I gave 10 days to better health today I work for a nonprofit and we do a program called community RX in English. The day the name in Spanish is saludent to plateau which is a 10-day program we do for the community and we help people to first of all eat a whole food plant-based diet for 10 days and we help people to improve their health and we only have them for 10 days.

We teach them how to uh eat a plant-based diet. We can't go check what they're actually eating. We only rely on what they tell us. But I just wanted to show you real quick. I don't know if I actually showed you some of the results. I might not have had the time to show you on that first presentation some of the actual results from people. I don't remember actually if I showed you or not. I just wanted to show you just some results. It's not that everybody gets the same results, but the these are some success stories.

Okay, these are not the real names obviously for privacy um uh reasons, but I just wanted to I I did put in bold uh some of the uh some of the results that have to do with diabetes just so that you see uh because we're talking about diabetes today, but actually you you can see even some of the cholesterol numbers how much they changed in only well two weeks because we do this on Sundays. So there's two Sundays, three Sundays actually. So they come after 14 days. But in 14 days, these are some of the numbers, you guys.

For instance, this lady, her fasting glucose went down from 158 to 71. Somebody's cholesterol went down from 228 to 148. This is high from from super nice, right? Like this is statins. You get they give you statins and this is no statins needed, right? LDL, this is very very high. This is wonderful. No statins needed right here. Okay, so this is amazing results. There's like no medication that will give you this kind of results in two weeks. Look at this person's fasting glucose. This is definitely in the di This is diabetic for sure.

They'll give you like for sure metformin with this kind of numbers. Maybe even insulin. I don't know. Like 184 is definitely diabetic. Uh look at these triglycerides number. Oh, by the way, this person went from 184 to 74. Now, if they stay with this diet, it's very likely that they will remain with these numbers. If they go back to eating what they were eating before, it's possible they'll go back to really bad numbers. But if they if they persevere, it's very likely that they will uh keep the good numbers.

Look at these persons triglycerides off the charts. Uh same here. People will lose uh weight. I mean, these are amazing numbers. I don't have a lot of time to go over but look at these fasting glucose numbers okay I mean these are the percentages the percentages look at the percentages okay this is only in 10 days LDL drop 22% 25% 27% 30% 38% 51% these are the kinds of numbers we see when people eat a whole food plant-based n uh diet and this is just the diet we don't even tell them to exercise we don't have the ability to really do an intense lifestyle program.

But at Weimar, that's what they do. Okay. That's what they do. Intense lifestyle. They cover everything. We only do the diets. This is the kind of things that you do. Are you a member of American Lifestyle? Oh, thank you. Because I was just going to show you that today I got an email. This is just very timely. I It's not I I don't want to brag. It's not that I want to brag. I just want to I just wanted to let you know that I'm not making things up that when I tell you these things, you can trust that this is good quality information.

I just got an email from uh from the American Life uh College of Lifestyle Medicine. I am a member, yes, but I got an email today that I finally got my my certification for uh be that I I I submitted all my paperwork like weeks ago. I am a member. I'm also certified as a lifestyle uh medicine professional, but I finally got my also my other certification which is a certification for type 2 diabetes remission. So I have two certifications from the American American College of Lifestyle Medicine. I have the certification from for being a lifestyle medicine professional.

That's like the basic certification, but this is an additional certification for type two diabetes remission because I took the additional classes for uh for for diabetes remission. Type two diabetes remission. I just got this email today. So, I just wanted to share this with you. I'm super happy that I got this certification as well. So, so this is very timely. Super duper. So, Pamela, you're also Yay. Also super duper. Yeah, this is this is a great um this is a great organization and one of the things that I really was very ingrained in my brain after I got certified is the importance of evidence of being evidence-based and I I really appreciate that from the training uh uh yeah thank you thank you Pamela uh from from the training from American College of Medicine which by the way is an organization that was started by Adventist doctors it's now expanded way beyond that But uh but yeah, it's it's a very great organization.

I really like it. Anyway, I wanted to then move on and let's talk about uh why are diabetes and other chronic diseases so common and what why are they related? We're going to talk about that too. But there, as you know, there's different types of diabetes. Diabetes type two is the most common one. 90 to 95% of diabetics are type two diabetics. But it's not the only kind of diabetes. As you probably know, there's type one, which is actually an autoimmune disease. It's not as common as type one. Type uh as type two, sorry.

Type two is the most common. Type one is much less common. Is an autoimmune disease. It used to be called juvenile diabetes. Did you know this? It's no longer called juvenile diabetes. Do you know why type 1 diabetes is no longer called juvenile diabetes? It's the kind of diabetes that happens because the cells in the pancreas that are in charge of producing insulin in the pancreas are completely destroyed uh by this autoimmune um process that happens. In other words, your own immune system destroys these cells that produce insulin, but the this usually happens in childhood and so it's usually diagnosed in childhood and by default you absolutely have to take insulin for the rest of your life.

It used to be called uh um juvenile diabetes because it's always diagnosed in youth in in childhood, but it's no longer called that way. And by the way, type two diabetes used to be called adult onset diabetes. So that's the differentiation. It used to be that type two was always diagnosed 40 year plus, you know, always. And the reason why this one is no no longer called juvenile and the type two is no longer called adult onset is because type 2 diabetes is now diagnosed also in children. In fact, when I was working at Salutarente, the community clinic in Watsonville, California, the youngest person that I saw with my own eyes, now this is my own personal experience, and there's probably much younger children that have been diagnosed.

This is just in my own personal experience. The youngest person that I saw with my own eyes in my office with type 2 diabetes already diagnosed and taking medications for type 2 diabetes was 12 years old. A young girl with type 2. I'm only 5, you guys. I'm very short. She was 510, 12 years old. 510 220 pounds at 12 12 years old. So, and that's only the youngest person I have seen. There's probably younger children with type two. Therefore, type two is no longer adult onset. So, type one cannot just be called juvenile because guess what?

Type two is also juvenile if you if you will if it happens at young ages. So those terms are no longer used. Okay. So that's type one. It's an autoimmune disease. Type one. Type two is not an autoimmune disease. It's a lifestyle disease. That's the one we're going to concentrate a little bit more because it's related to the other ones that we have been talking about. uh because it has to do with insulin resistance which is what we talked about on the first presentation when we talked about 10 days to better health.

Um and the body is okay somebody's talking about the body makes its own insulin every day. Yes, except for type one. So it doesn't because then the you know the autoimmune um the autoimmune process actually destroys this those um cells. Okay. There's also gestational diabetes that I mentioned earlier and uh it's a little bit related to actually the lifestyle diabetes in the sense I don't know how many of you know this but 50% of women actually there's yeah 50% of women who have had gestational diabetes go on to develop type 2 diabetes.

Did you know this? How many of you knew this? 50% of women with gestational uh diabetes go on to develop type two. And with Hispanic women, at least I think most minority women, people of color, it's within the first five years after giving birth. How many of you knew this? So yes, they are related. They're actually related. Type two and justational. All right, there's another one. You guys, how many have how many of you have heard of type 1.5? I bet you you haven't heard of that or most of you.

How many of you had heard of 1.5 before today? 1.5. It's actually the autoimmune. It's autoimmune diabetes just like diabetes one, type one, but it happens in adult age. That's why it's 1.5. It's kind of in between one and two. So Pamela had heard of it. That's because she's a member of ACLM. That's why she heard it. All right. Great Pamela. Congrats. Any anybody else have heard of this? Anyway, it's between one and two because it's autoimmune, but it happens in adult life. So, it's latent autoimmune diabetes in adults.

Lada. Interesting, right? It could be misdiagnosis type two. So you have to be careful if you have diabetes and you tried lifestyle modifications and for some reason that is not responding to lifestyle modifications. You could have your doctor check for antibodies and they could determine whether you have an autoimmune diabetes and it could be it could it could be an autoimmune diabetes. In that case it's 1.5. It's not two. And in that case, you might need to take um you might need to take insulin just if you as if you had type one.

But we will take we will talk about actually how lifestyle modifications are just as important for people who have type 1 diabetes, 1.5 to all of the diabetes actually. All right, one more thing. Have you ever heard of type three diabetes? Anybody? You're like, "What?" Many of you are probably like, "You got to be kidding me. There's no such a thing as type three diabetes. Never heard of this." Well, well, there's a hint right here, right on the screen. It says sugar in your brain. It has to do with the brain.

Will you in the future talk about types of anemia? Well, that's a good idea. I could tell me more about it. What do you want to hear? All right, I'll tell you what. Type three. Here it is. Do you see Alzheimer's disease? Alzheimer's disease. You can take a picture of this, read it on your own. Basically what it says right here is that insulin resistance, remember when we talked about insulin resistance, any of you who watched the first presentation, 10 days to better health, we talked about the underlying reason for diabetes and pre-diabetes and all the other conditions related to insulin resistance.

It could actually happen in the brain, too. That's what this abstract is talking about. And if you go on to read the the whole study, it will it will tell you basically that insulin resistance happens in the brain. Happens in all the whole body obviously. So that's what it's talking about. Now if you haven't watched the first presentation, I highly recommend you go back and watch it because I won't have too much time. I don't want to take too much time talking about the root cause of type two diabetes and the other chronic diseases we already covered it so I don't want to spend too much time on it but okay my microcystic anemia I will make a note of that and I will look into it and thank you for that um for that suggestion all right I will not like I said I won't spend too much time on this because it's already been covered in that first presentation but what we talked about in the first presentation was the fact that we have glucose as you know is the fuel for the cells.

That fuel needs to go inside of the cells and it goes into the cells through these cell through these recep receptors. These receptors are usually not open all the time and what opens these receptors is insulin which acts as a key. Sometimes is uh illustrated as a key. I illustrated in my little drawing here as a stickman. Basically, what the insulin does is opens up the receptors for glucose to go inside of the cell then to be used uh as a fuel. And actually in this drawing, what you see right here, these little organels inside the cell uh that you see with the green and the little red inside, these organels inside the cell are called mitochondria.

And the mitochondria is basically like the little engines or the furnaces if you will. That's where the glucose gets converted into energy. It's kind of like the engines inside of the cell which actually make the energy for you to function, for you to move, for you to wake up, do everything you need to do. All the cells, everything that happens in your body needs energy. So that's where the magic happens in the mitochondria. So basically the glucose is the fuel for that. So the insulin opens it up opens up these channels for the uh glucose to go in and uh and be used up as as the fuel.

But what's been happening uh with the modern lifestyle if you will sedenturism and excess calories particularly excess fat in the diet and accumulation of fat in the body as well is that we have this m intramiocellular accumulation of lipids intramyiocellular lipids we talked about this so if you haven't heard this I'm just going over it again but I really covered it in detail in that first presentation 10 days to better health. So what we have is an accumulation of fat within the cells. This is the intrammyiocellular.

Intra means inside. Myo means muscle. Cellular means cells. So inside of muscle cells mostly lipids means fat. So we see this abnormal accumulation of fats within cells and this abnormal accumulation of fat within cells produces this uh uh block this uh interference with the action of insulin and that is the basically the um the basis of this theory of insulin resistance. So the insulin is there. There is no lack of insulin at the moment. The insulin is there but the the action of insulin is being blocked by the intramiocellular lipids and that's why then you see an accumulation of glucose outside of the cell.

Now the pancreas tries to then uh do something about this uh this situation and the only thing that pancreas can do at the moment is produce more insulin. This is hyperinsulinemia. So this is the first problem you start to see number one hyperglycemia and number two hyperinsulinemia. Now we got two problems you see and of course we have uh too much fat. So now we have hyper uh lipidmia, right? Hyper lipids, too many lipids, hyper lipidmia, hyper glycemia, hyper uh insulinia. Too many wrong things going on at the same time.

Now the thing is all this insulin actually is kind of covering up the problem. We'll see that in a minute, but it's actually covering up the problem. I did talk about this last time, too, but I just wanted to show you other illustrations. This is more of a textbook illustration. And you see normal cell here. And the insulin and the glucose is going in. The glucose is these red little balls is actually going in normally. But the bottom here, this is an insulin resistant cell. You see the blocked channels, the insulin receptors.

Well, they're blocked and the in glucose is not going in. And in this other illustration here, the yellow balls that do, you see the yellow balls right there? That's the intrammyiocellular lipid. Do you see that? Intrammyiocellular lipid means fat, you guys. Fat inside of the cell. Inside of the cell. That's very important. Now, here's another illustration just for you know sake of more illustration so that you see what is a healthy uh healthy process. the top. In type one, the pancreas is not producing insulin.

That's type one. That's the middle one. Type two, insulin is being produced. That's the difference. In type two, insulin is there. What's not happening is the insulin working properly. So that's insulin resistance. Insulin is there, but it's not working. All right. Also, last time I showed you, oh, first before that, I wanted to make sure that I mentioned that insulin is being produced in extra amounts. That's hyperinsulinemia. That's one way you can actually know if you have insulin resistance.

You can your doctor can order that test. You can be tested for hyperinsulinemia. That's one way to know if you have insulin resistance. Last time I also showed this table. This comes from the book Goodbye Diabetes. I actually recommend this book. It's one of the first books I read on diabetes and insulin resistance. It's a great book from Dr. Wes Youngberg from Lumal Linda. Highly recommend. I actually met Dr. Wes Yonberg in person. He's a really nice person. So this is one table that is very illustrative of what I'm kind of trying the point I'm trying to make because the top row you see fasting blood sugar uh all the way to the right you see diabetes stage five and that's diabetes that's when your blood sugar at fasting blood sugar is 126 or more that's definitely diabetes stage three right there in the middle see says pre-diabetes if your blood sugar is 100 or more That's pre-diabetes.

Okay, we all know that. Okay, fine. If your blood sugar is 100, pre-diabetes, but what uh Youngberg is right there, right below the table. That's the last name. You can see it right below the the table. Youngberg. That's Youngberg. Uh but you the the name is spelled right there, right below the the table. Uh what but the point I made last time is that and this is actually in the book and it's very well explained by Dr. Youngberg in the book is that if your blood sugar fasting is above the optimal and look at optimal all the way in the left uh optimal blood sugar is between 70 and 84.

All right, but it's below pre-diabetes that's stage three over here. So it's 100 and plus. So if you go tomorrow to doctor, they take out your fasting blood sugar and it's 90. What's your doctor going to say? Your doctor's going to say, "You know what? Great. Bravo. Your blood sugar is normal. Go home. Everything's good. Keep eating what you're eating. You're doing great. Bravo." Right. Isn't that what they're going to say? Oh, good. Dr. Younger says, and actually not, he's not the only one. This is if you're a member of ACLM, you're probably going to hear this over and over again.

What's going on here is that maybe this is not all good. It's above optimal below pre-diabetes. What Dr. Youngberg observed when he went to Guam, I told you all this story in the first presentation, go watch it. is that there's people who have they're within these two numbers, right? 84 and 100 that are already experiencing the complications. We'll talk about those complications are in a minute that are already experiencing the complications of high or actually the complications of insulin resistance without having pre-diabetes yet without having listen to me this is very important they are already experiencing the complications of insulin resistance before having pre-diabetes the complications of insulin resistance because you can have insulin resistance and have the complications of insulin resistance before having the pre-diabetes, before having diabetes.

That's the issue. Insulin resistance has complications beyond diabetes, beyond pre-diabetes. That's why I titled this presentation reversing diabetes and metabolic diseases because it's not just about diabetes and pre-diabetes. It's other things related. That's why it's important to know this. What is insulin resistance and its complications? Well, these people were experiencing those complications way before they started having pre-diabetes. This is a process that can last years before you get to pre-diabetes.

You see what I'm saying? That's why it's important to know this. Dr. Youngerberg observed these people. They were young. Why were they having high blood pressure, fatty liver, and high lipids, and all these other things, and high triglycerides, and why? They were young. Why were they having these things? Well, because they were insulin resistant. So then he actually u published another one later. This other table much more expanded. And at the bottom, do you see the bottom row? It says increase heart disease risk.

Do you see that the bottom? That's why this is important to know because you start experiencing increased heart disease risk way before you get to pre-diabetes. Way before diabetes for sure. You don't have to have diabetes to have increased heart disease risk. You don't even have to have Look at this table. You already have 20% increased heart disease risk. You don't even have pre-diabetes yet. No pre-diabetes yet. Your doctor will say your blood sugar is normal at 95. You already have high higher risk of heart disease.

See why? Because there's insulin resistance. Now, I also showed you this last time. I don't know if you remember it. These are the complications. Do you see how many? Here's type one. Here's type one and a half. Do you see the top? Type one, then type one and a half. We already talked about this. Pre-diabetes, type two, gestational. Okay, that's all the diabetes we talked about. Then on the right after gestational there's cancer. What's cancer have to do with all this? High blood sugar is a high risk for cancer.

You guys, it is coronary artery disease. We already know that. Did you know that 70% of diabetics don't die of diabetes? They die of either a heart attack or stroke. 70% of diabetics die of either a heart attack or stroke, hypertension, atherosclerosis, obesity, high cholesterol, fatty liver, PCOS. What's that have to do with anything? Yes, insulin resistance related to PCOS. Alzheimer's, I just mentioned that. Type three diabetes. What? Yes. Neuropathy. Well, we already know that diabetics have that.

Blindness. Yes. Your retina, which is up up above, says retinopathy, your retina detaches and you become blind. I met someone at 40 years old right here in Watsonville, 20 minutes from where I live. 40 year old lady, young woman. 40 years old is super young. Don't you think? 40 years old, completely blind. completely blind from diabetes. So, neuropathy, uh, blindness, kidney failure. How many people have I met that have diialysis? I can't even tell you. You know, getting diialysis because of diabetes.

Do you know how much it lowers the quality of life to have to go to some dialysis center three or four times a week, be hooked up to a machine for hours? You know what that diialysis machine does? It takes all your blood out, filters it because that's what your kidneys are. They're filters. They'll filter the poison in your blood, put it in the pee, and basically flush it out of your body. And when your kidneys don't work, you poison yourself, right? You don't flush out all the poisons, so you start poisoning yourself.

So, you have to be hooked into a machine that will filter those poisons out of your toxins out of your body so you don't poison yourself. That's what the That's what diialysis is. So, kidney failure, retinopathy, and erectile dysfunction. All of these things are related to insulin resistance. You can have all of these things or these things that are not diabetes of course before diabetes. That's why it's so important. That's why it's so important to know about these things. We talked about the liver.

Fatty liver is an insulin resistant liver. And you could have high cholesterol. I already said high cholesterol, high glucose, high fatty acids. So high hyperc cholesterolmia, hypoglycemia, hyper lipidmia. And this high cholesterol will spill out into the rest of your body and travel through these arteries. This high cholesterol will travel through these arteries and start to accumulate inside of the arteries. And guess what? That will then lead to atherosclerosis. Then we will you know LDL concentrations, arterial plaque, hypertension.

you will need statins and of course it will lead to higher mortality all these uh diseases. So what again are the reasons be for this is the fat and so people confuse this right people confuse they think it's all the sugar it's not just all the sugar the sugar just turns into fat that's why sugar is a problem because it turns into fat but people forget that fat is already fat it doesn't have to be turned into fat fat is already fat and consuming too much fat is just as much of a problem and fat is a bigger problem and of course lack of exercise because if we were running marathons every day then it would be no problem.

You see now look at this interesting uh interesting uh slides slide you can actually have an auto. So this is what I was talking about how eating a healthy diet and lifestyle is important for both type one and type two because a as a type 1 diabetic a person can actually have unhealthy lifestyle let's say and so they can have the autoimmune diabetes with an unhealthy lifestyle they can actually start developing insulin resistance as well. Let's say they eat a highfat diet, which a lot of people with type one, they're told to eat a low carb diet.

So, they start eating a low carb diet, meaning usually high fat, high protein, high fat. They might be sedentary. So, now they start developing insulin resistance. So, they have the type one and they have insulin resistance. Now, they have what some people call double diabetes. Have you ever heard of that before? Double diabetes. What? It's a new concept. New concept for some people. Double diabetes. Type one and type two because you got the autoimmune and the insulin resistance both. That's why lifestyle modifications are just as important for type one.

and one and a half and two both of everyone justational everybody will benefit from lifestyle modifications isn't that interesting now here's where the confusion comes I ask people what's elevates blood sugar more eating high carb or high fat what do you think what in a okay in a person who's not diabetic Okay, a person who's not diabetic, what will elevate blood sugar more? Put it in the chat. Eating a highfat meal or eating a high carb meal. What will elevate blood sugar more? What do you think?

Because most people get it wrong. What do you think? I don't see anybody. High fat. Okay. Last time I I did this with a Spanish group, I had half and half. Half people said high carb and the other pe half said high fat. Huh. I was like well because I usually get you know so five years ago I would ask this question 90% would say hi car to the other day I did this presentation last week on Tuesday actually last week seven days ago with a Spanish oh so far is four high fats no high carbs so fatoo high fat is winning so last week seven days ago I did this presentation and it was half and half 50%.

Highfat 50% high carb. Today the highfat is winning. I think I have a very educated group today. Well you guys congrats because the highfat one today. So let me show you this very old study old where they studied this. Now this is like I said non-diabetics because a diabetic we already know they eat a they're they already are insulin resistant they cannot tolerate carbs. So they eat carbs they cannot metabolize them. But with a person who is non-diabetic they divided them in two. They gave them a high fat high and the other person a high carb and this is what happened.

Here is the result. The highfat meal. You're welcome, Aaron. Uh, the highfat meal elevates the blood sugar more than the high carb. But most people, now you guys are highly educated, you already know the right answer. But you ask people in the street, what do you think they're going to say? I would bet more than 50% of people will say high carb. In fact, all the keto people will say high carb. You know that all the people, all the keto people have this wrong perception that is the carbs that are the enemy and the fat is all the good stuff.

Fat is good. Carbs are bad. And yet here we have the science that shows us that fat will produce insulin resistance. So, I have a a video. I only have it in Spanish, you guys. But there's because there's plenty of information in English. That's why I make it in Spanish because in Spanish there's so little that somebody has to do it in Spanish. So, I had to do it in English or I mean how to do it in Spanish. In English, there's plenty. So, I had it a Spanish video, but you know what? in my Spanish channel.

That's the one video that has the most thumbs down is so unpopular because all the keto haters, I mean, the keto haters that hate my video, they love keto, they hate my video. So, the video is called why the keto diet is the worst for diabetes. So, the people who love keto and hate my video, thumbs down on my video. And I say that keto diet is the worst for diabetes. The reason why is because you start eating high fat, high fat, high fat. Okay? You're not eating any carbs. So, of course, you start eating keto, you're not eating carbs.

Okay? All of a sudden, your A1C is like on the floor. Your uh fasting glucose is like boom, super low. Why? Of course, you're not eating carbs. What are you going to convert into glucose? You got no carbs in your diet. You've got no glucose. So, of course, your glucose is low. But you're eating all this fat, all this fat, all this fat, all this fat. Guess what's happening? You're making yourself super insulin resistant. You're making yourself super carb intolerant. While you're not eating any carbs, no problem.

Guess what? Next, after 6 months, guess what happens? Next time you eat an apple, you have a piece of bread. Because what happens to your glucose? Boom. All of a sudden, you can't eat bread anymore. You can't metabolize carbs. Is that what you want? Not being able to ever eat normal like a normal person. Most people stay on keto for 6 months and then they have they drop because they can't live like that forever. It's not sustainable for most people. Did you know that? Most people can't live like that.

Anyway, so just so you know, I don't think it I think it's the worst. I wanted to give you some uh interesting statistics. I think this is kind of scary, honestly. This is just pre-diabetes. This is not even insulin resistance. This is pre-diabetes. 100 plus uh fasting glucose. Half of adults age 40 to 59 have pre-diabetes. Did you know half 23 of adults 68 60 to 74 and three4s of adult older than 74 adults older than 74 the first time we did our program at my work December of 2022 I got hired in September we did in December 2022 and my boss said you know we should partner with a church you know because our program is based on um it was community RX is the name in English and we she started it because of a film there's a documentary called plant pure nation made by Nelson Campbell the son of T Colin Campbell T Colin Campbell is very famous uh he's luminary in the plant-based community his son Nelson made a documentary I think it was 2017 that came uh called Plure Nation and they go to a church somewhere in the east coast I think African-American church I think and you see in the church the people do the program 10 days and they do great blah blah blah and so my boss oh my goodness I'm running out of time you guys okay my my boss is like why don't we partner with a church do you know any churches and I'm like yeah any Spanish churches yeah well do you think they would want to do a 10day Yeah, I think they would want to do a 10day program.

It's in the Bible. All right. Well, can you call them? Sure. Okay. Let We did the 10day program at the Spanish Watson Church, 7th Day Adventist. 34 members of the church uh signed up. 92% high hypertension, didn't know. Over 90% had pre-diabetes. They did not know. You see these numbers right here? Most people have pre-diabetes or hypension. They don't know. My goodness. All right. Another statistic that's super scary. Do you know that it's predicted that kids are now they're not even kids anymore.

Kids that were born after 2000, they're young people now in their 20s. Of course, some of them are kids. So anybody who's been born after the year 2000, they expect that onethird will be diabetic in their life. But this is in the general population between Hispanics and African-Americans, it'll be one out of two. Half the kids who are people of color will be diabetic. My goodness gracious. So what are the causes? Again, these are all lifestyle related for the most part because most people will be type two.

Number one, the fat we carry that's obesity and overweight, this atapost tissue will infiltrate into the cells and will become also that intramyiocellular lipid. Okay? So that will block the action of insulin. Uh and by the way, you can become you can be a skinny fat person by the way. So just because you're normal weight doesn't mean you don't have atapost tissue. So this is on the left you see normal body composition but on the right you see an unhealthy body composition. You can have normal weight and still have excess fat.

You can even be normal weight and be obese if you have unhealthy body composition. So just because you have normal weight doesn't mean you're not obese. You can still have abnormal body composition. So, make sure you check your body composition. Even if you're quote unquote normal, if you're not doing proper exercise, we're going to talk about this in our third part of this four-part series. Don't miss it. It's very important. By the way, this is in uh I have a quote of the spirit of prophecy that talks about this.

You don't want to miss that. Presentations number three. We're number one. So, be in six weeks or four weeks. I don't even know how to count anymore, but don't miss that one. Number three. All right. Uh, two. Number two cause rich diet. Eating excess fat. That fat does not need to be converted into fat. The sugar will be converted to fat. By the way, fructose is not used like glucose as fuel for the cells. Glucose is used as fuel for the cells. fructose. Industrialized fructose. Fruit fructose from fruit does not get does not do this because it has fiber.

But industrialized fructose does not have fiber. It goes straight to the liver and it becomes fat. FYI, fat is already fat. Does not need to be converted. It goes straight to our cells, to our liver, everywhere. All right. No bueno. Okay, next. Lack of exercise. Because if you're running all the time, if you're exercising, if you're moving your body, well, you can eat a little bit more calories. Also, of course, you want to be eat a healthy calorie. But if you're also not using your body, well, like I said, we're going to talk about that in our third presentation.

Genetics. Most people say, a lot of people say anyway, well, you know, I have diabetes because my mom, my my dad, my grandma, everybody in my family diabetes, so I inherited the diabetes, so it's not my fault. Really? Well, you're partly right. Well, not exactly. You actually uh have a predisposition if you have a family member, especially direct family member with diabetes. Yes, you do have that predisposition, but that's not the whole story. You still have to activate those genes. Those genes can be deactivated.

That's epigenetics. You can you need to activate those genes. If they're not activated, you're not going to get the diabetes or pre-di or you know, pre-diabetes or whatever other chronic disease. Very closely related to this is ethnic origin. When I used to work at the clinic, every single woman that we had in our clinic that was pregnant, we had to test for diabetes because every single woman was minority. And being part of a minority group automatically put them at a high risk for diabetes, just being ethnic minority.

But guess what? I'm gonna just tell you a story. In the United States, the ethnic group with the highest rate of diabetes. Do you know which group it is, by the way? What group do you think? Ethnic group the highest rate of diabetes in the United States. Does anyone know? Does anyone know? Put in chat. Anyone know what the high ethnic group with the highest rate of diabetes? I bet you you guys don't know. Or maybe someone knows. Maybe someone knows. Does anyone know? Well, I'll just tell you the ethnic group with the highest rate of diabetes is the Puma Indians.

Mostly from um I think Arizona area. Nope, not black you guys. Not Spanish. see Pima Indians. But guess what? The Puma Indians were a larger group like 700 years ago, I think, a long time ago. And they split. And some of them settled in northern Mexico. Some of them settled not Pacific Islander Native Americans, but certain Native Americans, Puma Indians in particular. Um, like I said, they split. Some of them uh settled in southern part of the United States, southwest. So the Pima Indians have very close relatives, if you will, in northern Mexico.

It turns out that their close relatives in northern Mexico, live in a northern state of Mexico called Chihuahua. They live in the Sierras of Chihuahua. And they're actually famous. You know why? Because they run. They're runners. Not only do they run, they run long uh races, like 100 mile races, and they usually come up in the top 10. They're famous for that. And they're called the Tada Indians. I don't know how many of you have heard of them. They like to run in their, you know, very traditional uh robes or whatever their their dress, their uh attire and their even their shoes are like sandals.

They run in those sandals. And like I said, they run even 100 mile races. They usually are in the top 10, even top five. They eat a very simple diet, mostly plant-based. They're very, uh, humble means. They don't have a lot of money. They don't have, you know, uh, McDonald's up in the Sierras. They don't have Burger Kings or, you know, Taco Bells or any of that. They they grow their own food. They eat corn, beans, you know, their own greens, things they grow. They eat meat maybe a few times a year whenever they have like a big party, you know, a couple times a year.

Uh even the women run. In fact, you can even go to Netflix and they watch a documentary called Lorena. Lorena and it talks about a girl that runs. It's pretty cool. So anyway, what I want to say is that uh the Puma or the Pima Indians and the Taramada are like closely related genetically. They're like first cousins practically. They have almost the same genes. And the taradas have some of the lowest rates of diabetes in the world. In the world. They have almost the same genes as the Puma Indians.

And the Puma Indians have the highest rates of diabetes in the United States. The taradas have the lowest one of the lowest rates of diabetes in the world. So is it the genes? That's the main point. Is it the jeans? No, it's not the jeans. You can turn off the jeans or turn them on. It's up to you. The lifestyle is what turns the jeans on or off. It's up to you. So, I just want to finish saying that diabetes is one of the things that will age your body the fastest. it that blood sugar goes all over the body and does damage everywhere like we said before and your your risk for heart attack your diet is part of it for sure.

Um your risk for heart attack like we said goes up incredibly just with pre-diabetes 50%. But with diabetes up to 400%. uh because like we said and and your risk for stroke goes up incredibly because even the arteries of your um brain start to be affected as I said before 70% of diabetics die of either a heart attack or a stroke and of course we have all these other complications like I mentioned before renal failure and we have vision problems blindness and uh amputations because the infections because they're immune system is quite lowered.

All this blood sugar higher lowers the immune system. That's a that's a whole other topic. When CO came up, that's when my videos went viral because I started talking about the uh immune system. The immune system and how to improve your immune system following eight basic principles. Poof. My videos went really viral with that. So anyway, the four the fourpart series we're going to delve very deeply into how completely reverse pre-diabetes and the underlying condition for pre-diabetes and type two diabetes which is actually insulin resistance and uh you know people sometimes say well type two diabetes is not curable.

In fact, when I went to teach one time a a class, it's one of the first classes I taught at the clinic I used to work. The doctor who actually sent me some of her patients, she went with me to teach one of the classes and one of the first things she said to the patients is like, "If you're all diabetics, let me tell you that diabetes, you will have it for the rest of your life. You diabetes cannot be cured." And I was like, "Oh no, why did she say this?" is I was going to tell them that actually it could be because guess what well I did tell them the next time the next class I said you know there's new research that a lot of doctors haven't even heard about it's brand new you know I tried to out of respect for the doctor to not contradict her but it is true a lot of doctors haven't even heard of this this is a consensus statement from the ADA the American Diabetes Association And do you see the title?

How do we define cure? I didn't say it. American Diabetes Association. I didn't say it. They're talking about well, they say remission later in the paper. But whatever. You can call it cure, remission, whatever you want. Reversal. The point is you can lower your blood sugar to the point of not qualifying as diabetic anymore in about 85 to 90% of the cases. Maybe not everyone. There's some cases where after years and years and years of diabetic of diabetes and over producing insulin it is possible that the pancreas can be uh you know it could be exhausted.

It can be used up too much. It cannot function any any more properly and it could be that a person cannot possibly reverse it 100% after many years of being diabetic. But it is possible that in most cases it could possibly be reversed. So who am I to say? It could be reversed. But for that you need to go to the root cause. So just taking medication it only covers the symptom. The symptom is high blood sugar. You need to go to the root cause and that's is the insulin resistance. Uh so it could be done.

I just wanted to show you some papers that talk about it could be done in a sustainable manner. Uh this is New Start from Weimar. They've done it for 40 years. You can read books about it. These are some of the books that talk about it. Dr. Jill Ferman, Dr. Neil Barnard has done it. There's many many books you can read. And of course, there's books from other authors that talk about the other complications like heart disease. There's books about that talk about the um autoimmune diseases and many um many other things that uh that you can you know like documentaries and stuff.

So why isn't is this more widely known? Well, because first of all it takes sometimes decades, generations for this information to trickle down from research into medical practice. Sometimes the doctors just think that the the patients won't follow it unfortunately and sometimes it's true the patients won't follow it. They rather take the pill. Sometimes we as patients want to want the easy way out. They we as patients sometimes rather take the pill. So sometimes doctors are right. Sometimes the doctors just think or they just don't have the time.

Honestly, they have 10 minutes. I used to work in a clinical setting and I I used to see how pressured doctors are to hurry up and see more patients. You know, it depends on the setting, but sometimes doctors themselves are pressured for productivity. They need to see so many patients a day. they just don't have the time to sit down and talk with each patient for one hour to tell them about the diet and the exercise and all. They just don't have that kind of time. So, it's just easier to write a prescription and just next, you know, unfortunately, it's just the reality.

And um in medical journals, this is another truth. Very sad, but they're dominated by the pharmaceutical industry that sponsors the studies. So not all these studies are published in the more you know uh the more read out p you know the studies that are the the journals that are more widely read. That's just the sad reality unfortunately. So that's why a lot of doctors don't know. It's just not as well known. Anyway, we're trying to make it more well known. The next class, the next session in two weeks, we're going to go very in detail about the best diet to reverse insulin resistance, which is related to all those other complications that we talked about, pre-diabetes and type two So if you want to know all the details about what's the best diet, so the actual eating pattern, nutrition for insulin resistance, remember it's related to all those metabolic conditions, pre-diabetes and diabetes, it will be in two weeks.

Okay, we're going to talk about just the diet. After that, we're going to talk about the best kind of exercise. And most people have no idea. They just think walk. No, it's so much it's so much more than that. People are just mistaken about just there's mo so much more to that. Okay. So, we're going to talk about that in four weeks. And then we're going to talk about other things that much more that people have no idea about. There's just so much more I want to share with you. But anyway, with this is just the introduction.

Uh there's more so much more information. I just wanted to show you one thing though. Uh in the the uh program that we do at my work, I just told you community RX aluden to plateau. I wanted to show you just the results of our first year. Um these are just the averages of our first year. We've done it for two years uh now and um and it's just about the same. But I just wanted to show you the averages. Again, we don't go to people's houses. We don't control what they eat, but we give them suggestions.

And this is more or less what we've seen in just 10 days. We see that the best results is definitely for lipids because we ask them to eat no uh oil. And so just leaving out the oil, leaving out the uh animal products, the lipids go down quite dramatically. So you can see right there the total the total cholesterol is 14% drop, but the LDL is 22% drop. So that's very very dramatic. That's what you really uh can drop without oil and no animal products. The triglycerides go down pretty good 6% and the glucose goes down about 5%.

So that's just in two or 10 days. But what we have seen in uh in about three months like in uh new start program is that if people follow this for three months and they add so this is just the diet. If you add the lifestyle uh habits like exercise, sleep and um and all the other things like stress management and all the drinking water, all the lifestyle changes. If you add incorporate all of it by about 3 months over 80% of people who follow all the exercise and all the lifestyle habits including the diet about 80% of diabetics can reverse the diabetes if they do it.

So I think that's great. I don't know about you but I think that's wonderful. Okay, I want to leave you my website once again healthfortoday.net. net because if any of you guys haven't gone there and you want to try eating a plantbased diet for 10 days, you can try it. If you haven't done it yet, I recommend you do it. You can download the 10day program, the Daniel Challenge, from this website, healthfortoday.net. And so if you go there, you see right there on the top it says um what does it say?

10day challenge. 10day challenge. You click there and it's free. You don't even have to leave me your your you know sometimes you go to these websites and you have to leave your email or whatever. I don't even ask you to do that. Just just download it. Um, you can also do the intermittent fasting. And if you combine a plant-based diet and intermittent fasting, I don't think how you cannot not lose weight. For people who want to lose weight, I think it's almost impossible not to lose weight if you combine those two things.

So, anyway, I think I've uh gone over my time as I usually do. If you have any questions, I can answer any leftover questions unless the producer says no, you have to go now. Um, but I wanted to thank you for for your time. I hope this has questions are fine. She said questions is fine. If you guys have any questions, let me know or else we'll finish with prayer. But I wanted to thank you for your time and I hope this has been beneficial to you. Uh, let's see. Ah, perfect. Uh, I hope this has been beneficial for you.

I hope this has given you at least an idea of what uh we will be talking next. So, next in two weeks from Thank you. You're welcome, Candy. Thank you. Thank you for for connecting. Thank you for being with us. Um, I am very excited. I hope that the next few presentations will be beneficial. I I hope you invite people to connect the next three sessions because it will be a complete seminar on reversal of diabetes and pre-diabetes and insulin resistance and all the metabolic conditions that are related to insulin resistance.

So hyper lipidmia that means high cholesterol, LDL cholesterol which is the bad cholesterol or high triglycerides, fatty liver, that's another one that's very much a metabolic condition. Of course, anybody who has um high overweight or obesity usually it has to do with metabolic condition because anyone who has high uh or insulin resistance producing too much um too much insulin and insulin itself is a growth hormone and therefore it makes you got weight g uh gain weight. So it is very hard to lose weight if you have hyperinsulinemia.

So, anybody who has overweight, obesity, high uh cholesterol, high triglycerides, hypertension, any of these things, try to make them watch this one and the next three. If I am oil free, can I still have avocados? I absolutely recommend eating avocados, nuts, seeds, any of these healthy fats, especially with your salads. Not a lot. You don't want to eat two, three, four avocados a day. U a handful of nuts is about one ounce is just about right for most people. Unless you are a very active person like an athlete, maybe two handfuls or you know someone who is pregnant might need more calories.

Uh but you want to actually add those healthy fats especially to your salads. Why? Because the those antioxidants like the beta carotens for instance, these are fat soluble. So if you're not adding fats to your salads, healthy fats with the fiber, nuts, you could be like you can make a dressing for instance with cashews or walnuts or almonds or avocado or just add the avocados, chop them up, put them on top. any of these things uh or put you know like flax seeds any of these things any healthy fats will help you absorb the uh beta carotene and any of these other um any of these other very healthy antioxidants that are in the salads and in in the veggies.

So yes, I absolutely recommend eating a healthy amount of fat every day. About 1 ounce of nuts or seeds or, you know, maybe about 50 grams of avocados. So maybe an ounce and a half or something. Depends if you want to lose weight or if you're trying to gain weight. So it depends on each person. I restarted my vegetarian eating. I plan uh plans starting last Friday. Awesome, Harriet. Congrats. Congratulations. Are there any recommended apps? I'm glad you asked. Actually, I do have a friend who is a Food for Life instructor and Food for Life is a program with PCRM, Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine.

And they have an app called 21day Vegan. I don't work for them. I just know that my friend is an instructor. So, it's called 21 21 Vegan Kickstart, and it's an app. Uh, most of the recipes are pretty good. I like them. They're at least plant-based. You can even do grocery shopping lists and all these things. They have plenty of recipes. You can even change it to Spanish in the settings if you want Spanish recipes in Spanish. Uh, so anyway, it's pretty good app, so I'm glad you asked. Awesome. Any other questions?

If you're going to have any other questions, I think we will finish with prayer. And so, um, let's not forget that our next, uh, our next program will be July 8th. And it 21day vegan kickstart. That's the one. So, I think it will be a good one. It will be a good one, you guys. Tons of recipes. You can even do a shopping list. It's great. It's pretty good. Just if if there's any, you know, I don't think there's any oil, but if there's any oil, just you can leave it out or whatever. Um, it's up to you.

All right. July 8th, don't forget the diet. Share it with your friends. Okay, let's let's finish with a prayer. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for today. Thank you for the opportunity to do this program. Thank you for all the knowledge you have given us and given access to us that we can share with other people. Help us, Lord, to share this with this information with others that might need it. And um help us to be your ambassadors wherever we go that we may help others to know you better um and to help them to know that you are our healer and our savior.

In Jesus name we pray. Amen. Thank you once again. See you in two weeks. Thank you for being with us. God bless you and good night. Thank you. Thank you everyone. Thank you Deborah. Thank you Harriet. And thank you Matina. And let's see who else. Mountains and the Sea. Candy YBJ. Thank you everyone. Good night.