All right, everyone. We are back. Uh slight technical difficulty, but uh we're back and we are good to go. So again, just put a one in the chat if uh you could hear me. Uh put a two in the chat if you are ready. We have prayed. I'm going to go ahead and pray again. Um and uh and then we're going to start this message. So let's do that now. Heavenly Father, again we ask for your presence to be with us as we go through your word. Please Lord speak as our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Daniel chapter 8 and verse 14.

Uh that will be the focus of our study today. And we're going to begin just by simply reading uh the eth chapter of Daniel. We're going to break it down a little bit. Um just I there's one thing I want to just point out before we get into breaking down that chapter and uh it'll be a slight interruption if you will right after verse one but it's going to be a very important point. So we'll do that. We're going to read through Daniel 8 and then we're going to go back and begin to methodically break down this chapter, the context of the chapter and uh and see from the Bible what Daniel chapter 8 is actually talking about.

So let's go ahead and begin. We're going to go to Daniel chapter 8 and verse 1. Daniel chapter 8 and verse one. The Bible says here, "In the third year of the reign of King Belshazar, a vision appeared unto me, even unto me Daniel after that which appeared unto me at the first. And I saw in a vision. And it came to pass when I saw that I was at Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elum. And I saw in a vision, and I was by the river Uli. Um, we're gonna pause here for a moment because I want to point out that even though Daniel is currently in the the the kingdom of Babylon, that's the present ruling kingdom, the Bible actually goes out of its way to point out that in this vision, Daniel was at Shushan in the palace.

He was at Shushan in the palace. Now, how many of you have have read the book of Daniel chapter 8 before? Just put a one in the chat if you have read this chapter before. Probably one of the things that you may have never paid attention to is the fact that Daniel in this vision is at Shushan in the palace, which is very interesting. And let me share with you why. because Shushan was actually the the capital of the Grecian Empire. So, so for example, we see in Nehemiah 1 verse one the words of Nehemiah the son of Hakaleia.

And it came to pass in the month of Shisloo in the 20th year as I was in Shushan the palace. Now, why is this significant? Because Susan is the place which represented the reign of the Meo Persian Empire. Meaning Daniel in vision is taken to a place that signifies the future rule of the Meo Persian Empire. So let's go back. Let's keep watching. Let's keep looking. Um the Bible tells us here Daniel 8:3 and verse4. Then I lift lifted up mine eyes and saw and behold there stood before the river a ram which had two horns.

And the two horns were high, but one was higher than the other. And the higher came up um the higher uh came up last. And I saw the ram pushing westward and northward and southward so that no beast might stand before him. Neither was there any that could deliver out of his hand. But he did according to his will and became great. And as I was considering, behold, a hegoat came from the west of the face on the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground. And the goat had a notable horn between his eyes.

And he came to the ram which had the two horns, which I had seen standing before the river, and ran unto him in the fury of his power. Verse seven. And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved with colar against him, and smokeote the ram, and break his two horns. And there was no power in the ram to stand before him, but he cast him to the ground and stamped upon him, and there was none that could deliver the ram out of his hand. Verse verse 8, the Bible says, "Therefore the the hegoat waxed very great, and when he was strong, the great horn was broken, and for it came up four notable ones towards the four winds of heavens.

And out of one of them came forth a little horn which waxed exceeding great toward the south and toward the east and toward the pleasant land. And it waxed great even to the host of heaven. And it cast down some of the host or the stars to the ground and stamped upon them. Yay, he magnified himself even to the prince of the host. And by him the daily sacrifice was taken away and the place of his sanctuary was cast down. Verse 12 and 13. And the host was given him against the daily sacrifice by reason of transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground, and it practiced, and it prospered.

And then comes a question. Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint um said unto the certain saint which spake, How long shall be the vision concerning the daily sacrifice and the transgression of desolation to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trotten underfoot? And he said unto me, unto 2,300 days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. All right. So, here is the context. Here is the the the the full reading at least up until this vision is is is uh uh brought to this point of 2300 days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.

And the question is, what does this vision mean? What is this time period? How should we interpret this time period? Um, to do this, to understand what's going on in Daniel chapter 8, we really need to see a larger picture. We need to understand the context of the entire book of Daniel. So, let me say it this way. If you isolate Daniel chapter 8 from the rest of the book of Daniel, you're already in trouble. You're already in trouble. So, so what needs to happen is we need to get a big picture of what's going on in the book of Daniel.

Now, in the book of Daniel, there are uh five visions. You'll see it up on the screen here. In the book of Daniel, there are five visions. And these visions take place in Daniel chapter 2, Daniel chapter 7, Daniel chapter 8, Daniel chapter 9, and then Daniel 11 and 12 is one vision. Even though it's divided by a chapter, the one vision spans Daniel 11 and concludes in Daniel 12. It's the same vision or the same uh uh prophecy, if you will. So, uh uh in order to to understand Daniel 8 is right in the center of the of the of the book of Daniel, it's right in the center of the five visions.

So what I want to do is just run briefly through the vision of Daniel 2 7 9 11 and 12. Now we're not going to go through in great detail. I just want to show you something very significant. So in Daniel 2 uh we have a vision of a man um made of different metals and we know that that man is a symbol of the kingdoms according to the book of Daniel chapter 2. So the head of gold is Babylon. The the uh chest and and arms of silver is Meo Persia. The belly and thighs of brass is Greece. And then the legs of Rome, the legs represent the kingdom of Rome.

A and then uh the Bible tells us that a stone is cut out without hands that destroys the image on its feet. So notice with me Daniel chapter 2 verse 44. And as the as the as Daniel is giving the interpretation of this dream, he says um in the days of these kings. So we're talking about the 10 toes in which the the stone that is cut out of the mountain without hands destroys the image in in the toes. It says in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed.

And the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and shall consume all these kingdoms. and it shall stand forever. For as much as thou sawest the stone that was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it break in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold, the great God has made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter, and the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof is sure. So in Daniel chapter 2, we have a vision that spans thousands of years.

Please put that in the chat for me. The vision spans, if I would ask you how long is this vision, you would say the vision spans thousands of years and it it climaxes with the second coming of Jesus. It climaxes with something something universal. It's a huge thing, right? It's a it's a big deal. The kingdom of heaven is being set up It is like a universal event. So y'all put a one in the chat if you're following so far. That's all we're doing in Daniel 2. We're seeing that this vision spans thousands of years and it climaxes not with something little, not with something small, but with something huge.

It climaxes with with heavenly events. The second coming of Jesus. All right, let's go to Daniel chapter 7. Now in Daniel chapter 7, the second of the five visions, we have a vision of animals. Daniel sees a lion followed by a bear followed by a leopard which has four heads followed by a fourth nondescript beast with seven with 10 horns. And then the t horns we we we see parallels the 10 toes of Daniel 2. Then after the ten horns rises a little horn. Now I want you to note how the prophecy of Daniel chapter 7 concludes.

Um in Daniel 7:9 the Bible says I beheld till thrones were cast down and the ancient of days did sit whose garment was white as snow and the hair of his head like the pure wool. His throne was like the fiery flame and his wheels as burning fire. A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him. Thousand thousands ministered unto him, and 10,000 times 10,000 stood before him. The judgment was set and the books were open. I beheld them because of the voice of the great words which the horn spake.

Talking about the little horn of Daniel 7, I beheld even till the beast was slain and his body destroyed and given to the burning flame. So, so, so then it goes on to say, "And I saw the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven and came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. And there was given him dominion and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed."

So in Daniel chapter 7, this vision also concludes in a grand climactic way. This vision also spans thousands of years from the time of Babylon all the way to the destruction of this beast. And in fact, you might ask, when is this beast body given to the burning? Let's go back to the screen and we will notice in Revelation chapter 19:1 the Bible says, "I saw heaven open and behold a white horse and he that sat on him was called faithful and true and in righteousness he judge and make war." This is a description of the second coming.

Just a few verses down, it says, "And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies." Almost like this verse is is combining Daniel 2, the kings of the earth. Daniel 7, the beast and their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army. And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, which he de which with which he deceived them that received the mark of the beast, and them that worshiped his image.

These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone. So then what do we see? What do we see from the vision in Daniel chapter 7? We see that the vision also spans thousands of years. We see that the vision also ends in a grand climactic way. Doesn't end with a little event. It ends with something that is universal. Y'all put a one in the chat if you're following so far. Now, we're going to skip Daniel 8 cuz that's a chapter that we want to study, but we're going to skip Daniel 8 for a moment and we're going to go to Daniel chapter 9.

Now, in Daniel chapter 9, Daniel receives a vision regarding the the coming of Jesus. I want you to note how all of these visions so far, Daniel 2, Daniel 7, and now Daniel 9, all revolve around the person of Jesus Christ. Daniel chapter 7 gives us a view of the first coming of Jesus. But hold on, please note with me verse 25, which says, "Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the command to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the prince shall be three score in two weeks.

The street shall be built again, and the wall even in troubleous time." Now notice verse 26. And after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. And the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Now watch this. And the end thereof shall be with a flood. And unto the end of the war desolations are determined. Notice verse 27. And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week. And in the midst of the week he shall cause a sacrifice and oblations to cease.

and for the overspreading of abominations he shall make it desolate even until the consummation and that determined shall be poured out upon the desolate. What is the consummation? The consummation is the end of all things. I want you to note how Jesus speaks of the abomination of desolation in Matthew 24:14. Matthew 24:15. The Bible says, "When you shall therefore see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place. Whoso readeth, let him understand." And it goes on to talk about all these things that are going to happen.

And it points to the end of time. And then just a few verses later, it says, "Except those days shall be shortened, there shall be no flesh be saved, but for the elect's sake, those days shall be shortened. Then if any man shall say unto you, lo, here is Christ, or there, believe it not. For there shall arise false Christs and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, in so much that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. Behold, I have told you before, and then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in the heavens.

So, let's pause for for a second. We're not even going to read the rest of this verse. You're going to see the Son of Man coming in the clouds. Daniel 9 not only points to the first coming of Jesus but it goes beyond that to the consummation. So much so that even futurist Christians Christians who believe in a futurist uh prophetic view take Daniel chapter 9 verse 27 to apply to the last days. They believe the antichrist will come and make a treaty with Israel for seven years. You know that you you you've heard of this the left behind series.

It's all based on Daniel 9:27. In other words, even in Daniel 9, the vision of Daniel 9 culminates with the second coming of Jesus. Y'all put a y'all put a five in the chat if you understand what we're doing right now. If you understand what we've done so far, Dan, there are five visions in the book of Daniel. We've seen that vision number one is a grand vision. It Jesus. Daniel chapter 7, the same thing. It culminates with the second coming of Jesus. We've skipped Daniel 8 and we're just going to Daniel chapter 9.

Daniel chapter nine we've seen culminates it points out not only the first coming of Christ but it culminates with the consummation the second coming of Jesus. Jesus himself puts the abomination of desolation not only in the days of Rome but also also at the very end of time. So now let's go to Daniel 11 and 12. This is the very last vision of the book of Daniel. Daniel 11 and 12. Uh, and we're just going to note here in Daniel 11, there's a conflict going on between these two powers. One is the king of the north, one is the king of the south.

It begins during the Meo Persian Empire, but expands all the way to Daniel 12:1, which reads this, "And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince, which standeth for the children of thy people, and there shall be a time of trouble such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. And at that time thy people shall be delivered. Everyone that shall be found written in the book. And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.

And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever. So what we have here in Daniel 11:12, the final vision, is that this vision also ends in a very climactic way. The climax of this vision, the the the apex of this mission, the culmination of this of this vision I should say, is the second coming of Jesus where the dead are resurrected. Are we good so far? So now please understand what we have just done. Please note with me on the screen.

Note with me on the screen. Remember, we have skipped the vision of Daniel chapter 8. I just want to show you that in Daniel chapter 2, the climax, stone smashes image, eternal kingdom is set up. It's the second coming of Jesus leads to the thousand years. In Daniel 7, same thing. You've got a judgment, a heavenly judgment, culminates with the second coming, thousand years. Daniel 9ine, the vision of Daniel 9, the same thing. First coming of Jesus, his crucifixion, desolations of the temple until the consummation, the very end culminating with the second coming.

That's the end of the war. That's the culmination. Are you with me? Daniel 11 and 12, same thing. Concludes, begins a meet of Persia, concludes with the second coming. So what we what we should notice about the grand theme of the book of Daniel is that the prophecies climax or culminate with the second coming of Jesus. Are we good? The visions are universal and the visions all span thousands of years. So now our question is, will Daniel 8, will the vision of Daniel 8 be any different? What do y'all think?

Will the vision of Daniel 8 be different? In other words, will the vision of Daniel 8 culminate with something that was not so big? Will it culminate with something that was not global? will culminate with something that is that doesn't have to do with the second coming of Jesus. What do you all think? If there are five visions in the book of Daniel and vision one, two, vision four and five are all spanning thousands of years and are all climactic in the sense of they culminate with something huge, something global.

What is the likelihood that the vision in Daniel 8 will be anticlimactic? Will be something small and insignificant? The one right in the center of the book of Daniel. What is the sign? What is the the the likelihood that the vision will be about something that's just, you know, local, not too big of a deal? What do y'all think? If you're saying that it is probably likely that the vision of 8 would be in the same context as the rest of the book of Daniel, I would agree with you. I would agree with you.

Let's go back to the book of Daniel, chapter 8 now. And I want you to note what the angel what Daniel says when the angel is about to come and explain to him. So he came near where I stood. And when he came, I was afraid and fell upon my face. But he said unto me, "Understand, oh son of man, for at the time of the end shall be the vision." Isn't that interesting? The angel that comes to explain to Daniel this vision is basically saying that the vision will connect with the time of the end. Verse 19, he said, "Behold, I will make thee to know what shall be in the last end of the indignation.

For at the time appointed, the end shall be." You guys, right now, it would appear that Daniel 8, the vision of Daniel 8, whatever it is, must have something to do with the end times. That's just right, right out the box, right out the out of the gate. The angel is literally saying, "Hey, this vision, just like Daniel 2, just like Daniel 7, just like Daniel 9, which you will get in the future, just like Daniel 11 and 12, it is the it there is harmony. Let's put it that way. There is harmony between these prophecies.

And the only way you can get Daniel 8 wrong is if you break the harmony. is if you is if you disconnect from the harmony of the book of Daniel. Now remember I told you this is going to be methodical. This is going to be surgical. But just because it's methodical and surgical does not mean that it's going to be difficult. Now just let me see by a show of hands how many of you get the the line of reasoning or the logic that we have just used without having yet touched Daniel 8. We're simply seeing that the five visions in Daniel all conclude with the same thing.

They all conclude with the second coming which grace would be connected with the 1000 years. Even Daniel chapter 9. And even though we disagree with our Christian friends about that last uh par that last verse in Daniel chapter 9 that it's about an antichrist in the future, we do believe that the consummation is at the end of time. Daniel 8 tells us that the vision is at the end. Now I want you to note something else. Let's go back to the book of Daniel chapter 8. And I want you to notice again verse 13 and 14.

So there it says, "Then I heard one saint speaking and another saint said unto that certain saint which spake, how long and the host to be trodden underfoot? And he said unto me, "Unto 2,300 days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed." Please note with me that the word here uh for vision, shazam, um it literally means a dream, a revelation, an oracle. So the angel, listen. Now, by the way, how many of you can say, pastor, the point you just made just now settles the question for me? Just put a five in the chat, if if what we just covered, just looking at the context of all the prophecies of Daniel, how many of you say to yourself, "Wow, you know what?

That one thing alone helps me to know that Daniel chapter 8 must also be dealing with thousands of years, not 2300 days, but thousands of years. We're going to prove it. If that point is good enough for you, praise God. But there's more to be proved. There's there's more evidence that demonstrates this. Let me show you. Note the question again. Uh if you have a King James vi Bible, you will see that the word um concerning is italicized. It's italicized. Meaning when we read how long shall be the vision concerning the daily and the transgression desolation to give both the sanctuary and the host to be tried underfoot.

That word concerning is italicized, meaning it's not in the original text. Now, that word concerning is concerning. And here's why. Because when people typically read How long shall be the vision concerning the daily um the transgression of desolation, they're focused on the little horn. But that is the wrong focus of the question. Now trust me, you're you probably scratch your head like, "Wait, what?" No, no, no. Look carefully at the question. The question, if you take out the the italicized words, it would simply read, "How long, the vision, the daily, the transgression of desolation to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trod underfoot."

So let's read a couple let's read this in a couple different translations. How long shall the vision last concerning the daily sacrifice and the transgression that causes the desolation? How long will the vision be? Let's keep reading. How long shall the vision continue? How long will the things in this vision last? How long will the things in this vision, the daily burnt offering, the destruction, uh take place? So what is the angel asking here? Let's come back for a moment. What is the angel asking here?

Daniel overhears the angel asking how long not listen now. Not how long does the little horn do his thing. ahead and put a eight in the chat if you understand the distinction that we just made. The question is not how long will the little horn do what he's doing. That is not the question. Put a eight in the chat if you understand what I'm saying. The question is not how long will the little horn do what he's doing. The question is how long is this vision? Now I'm going to ask you to put a nine in the chat if you caught that just now.

little horn do x y and z. That's part of the question. But the actual question is how long is this vision? When we add the word concerning, it's just identifying the vision. How long is the vision? You know, the one about the little horn, the one about all the stuff he's going to How long is his vision? That's the question. How long is his vision? So if the question is how long is this vision? Then we got to ask ourselves what does the vision include? That's right, Robert. How what is the duration of this vision?

How long is this vision? Well, what does the vision include? Let's go back to the screen and I want you to note with me Daniel chapter 8. Daniel chapter 8 verse 21. The angel begins to explain to Daniel. And notice he doesn't start with the little horn. He starts at the beginning of the vision. The ram which you saw having two horns are the kings of Media and Persia. Then the rough goat is the king of Greece and the great horn that is between his eyes is the first king. Do y'all see this? What Daniel 8 is telling us is that the vision spans the kingdom of Meor Persia.

It spans the kingdom of Greece and it and it goes all the way to this little horn power. Whatever this little horn power is, we haven't identified it yet, but whatever this little porn power is, we know this little horn power must continue to the second coming of Jesus. Because if Daniel 8 is like Daniel 2 or Daniel 7 or Daniel 9 or 11, this little horn power and we will see. Remember the angel said this continues to the time of the end. So now the question is how long is this vision the one with the ram the hegoat the the the great horn between his eyes the four horns that break off in his place and then the rise of this little horn.

How long is the vision? Not how long does the little horn do how long is the vision? So if division begins in the kingdom of Meo Persia and concludes kingdoms later then this 2300 years which is the answer to the question how long the vision not how long the little horn but how long the vision concerning the little horn. The vi that same vision concerns the ram and the hegoat. And the angel that explains this to Daniel verifies this by beginning his explanation by talking about the ram. If the vision spans me, Persia and Greece and then whatever comes after that, this 2300 days must be what, y'all?

What must the 2300 days be? If the 2300 days span the vision, what must these 2300 days be? Do 2,300 days can 2300 days span the reign of the Meo Persian Empire, the reign of the Grecian Empire? No. Listen, beloved, you don't need to go to Ezekiel chapter 4. A day equals a year. You don't need to go to Numbers chapter 14. You No, you don't need to do any of that. No, just staying in the chapter. Just staying in the chapter and just noting the question. How long shall be the vision? Just stop right there.

Everything else is qualifying. How long shall be the vision? How long shall be the vision? What vision? Oh, the one you've just come to explain to me. And beloved, it becomes absolutely clear that this time period spans the entire vision. Not just the little horn. It spans the entire vision. Y'all go ahead and I don't usually I usually stay from 1 to nine, but please go ahead and put a 10 in the chat if you have just like this is like pastor I got it. Put a 10 in the chat. I usually stick one to nine, but I'll tell you, I'm so excited that I think this one I think this is a 10.

I think y'all need to put that 10 in the chat. So we now know that when the angel begins to explain the vision, he starts with the ram. By the way, the ram represents, as we noted, the Meo Persian Empire. Now, now here is a question. How can we how can we verify that these days equal years? I think we've already seen it and we've already seen it clearly. But now there's additional information for us. To see this additional information, we need to go to Daniel chapter 9. And we're going to go to Daniel chapter 9.

And uh and we're going to begin um we're going to begin with verse one. We're going to begin with verse one. So in Daniel chapter 9 verse one and by the way we're going back to Daniel 8. So just we're we're building we're building. So in Daniel chapter 9 vers1 the Bible says in the first year of Darius the son of Ahazeras the seed of the Mes which was made king over the realm of the Calaldanss. In the first year of his reign, I Daniel understood by books the number of the years whereof the Lord, the word of the Lord, came to Jeremiah the prophet, that he would accomplish 70 years in the desolation of Jerusalem.

And I set my face unto the Lord God to seek by prayer and supplication with fasting and sackloth and ashes. And I prayed unto the Lord my God, and made my confession, and said, 'Oh Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant, and mercy to them that love him. We have sinned and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even by departing from the precepts and from thy judgments. Now, let's pause for a second. Let's pause for a second. And I here's my question for you.

Let's come back for a moment. Why is Dan Why does Daniel 9 open up this way? Why is Daniel like I understood I understood by the book of Jeremiah the number of years Lord that you said the sanctuary would lay desolate. Why is Daniel opening up? Why does Daniel 9 open up with Daniel saying this? Why? And what does that have to do with the previous chapter? Let me show you. Let's go back to the screen and I want you to notice with me verse 17. Now therefore, oh God, hear the prayer of thy servant and his supplication, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is desolate for the Lord's sake.

Oh my God, incline thine ear, and hear, open thine eyes, and behold our desolations, and the city which is called by thy name. For we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousness, but for thy great mercies. Oh Lord, hear, O Lord. Forgive, oh Lord, hearken and do. Defer not for thine own sake, oh my God, for thy city and thy people are called by thy name. All right. What's going on here? Daniel is like, hold on, Lord. I know according to Jeremiah that you promised that we would spend 70 years, the city and the temple would lay desolate for 70 years and then there would be a rebuilding.

We would get to go back. But what I just saw in Daniel 8 has confused me. What do you mean unto 2300 days and then shall the sanctu where where sanctuary be cleansed? If that's 6 and 1/2 years, wait a minute, Lord. Are you about to delay? What do you mean like the temple isn't even built yet? Is we haven't rebuilt it. What are you talking about, God? I'm confused here. I know what you said, Lord. Are you saying that the temple that is supposed to Are you saying that this 70 years, which we are right upon right now, are you saying that that's not going to happen anymore?

Are you saying that there's going to be a delay? All right, y'all. Put in the chat, put a five in the chat if you understand the cont. If you understand now why Daniel is praying with such ferveny, if you understand now why Daniel is saying, "Lord, please do not defer. Don't push this back. Why is he praying that? Why is he pleading? Why is he fasting?" Because he's like, "Hold on. Daniel A just threw me off. We don't even have a sanctuary. But we're still in Babylon. What do you mean? Somebody's going to do this and this and this to the temple and and and the temple's going to be defiled and under 2300 days then shall san what do you mean?

And so Daniel comes to pray and he's pleading that the Lord does not defer. He's like, "Lord, we've sinned. We've done wrong. I acknowledge it, but please Lord, do not defer. Do not defer. So that's right, Nerky. Whether even in Daniel's mind, if he's if he's if he's thinking is this 2,300 days or years, I don't understand. If he and let's give him that. Let's say that he does not understand at the moment. Whether he understood or not, he's coming and saying, is this being deferred? Like why are we why what have we done now?

How have we gone wrong now? Lord, whatever we've done, forgive us. Why this extension? And so now you know why the angel has come to give him understanding. Y'all put a five in the chat. Put a five in the chat if you're like, "Oh, I get it." Now you know why that because Daniel, he's thinking the tabernacle, all this is going to happen to this tabernacle. And the angel is going to come to explain. The angel is going to come to explain so that just in case Daniel does not understand this 2300 time period, he will understand it by Daniel chapter 9.

Watch what the angel says. Daniel 9 verse 22. And he informed me and talked with me and said, "Oh Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding. At the beginning of thy supplication, the commandment came forth, and I am come to show thee, for thou art greatly beloved. Therefore, understand the matter and consider the vision." What 8. That's why he's praying. I don't understand, Lord. Like, what what have we done? What where have we gone wrong again? Why this delay? And then the angel begins to explain the 70w week prophecy.

He says 70 weeks are determined. That word determined means cut off from. 70 weeks are determined or cut off from what? Cut off from a larger prophecy. Cut off from a prophecy that came previously. 70 weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city to finish a transgression to make an end of sins to make reconciliation for iniquity and to bring an everlasting righteousness to seal up the vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy. And now note this. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the prince.

And then he gives this time period. Now let's pause for a second. There were four decrees that were given re revolving around the rebuilding of Jerusalem and the temple. And each decree served a different purpose. So number one, here's what we know. That decree, whichever decree we choose, came under the empire of the Meo Persians. Who did the meopersians represent in Daniel chapter 8? What was used to represent the meopersians? The ram. Isn't it doesn't it then make sense why the vision begins with meersia.

The vision begins with me Persia in Daniel 8 because that's the kingdom that's going to give the decree by which you start counting this 2300 day time period. That's why the vision doesn't begin with Babylon. It begins with Meo Persia. How long shall be the vision? 2300 days. that 2300 days must span these kingdoms beginning in the Meo Persian Empire which coincidentally is the kingdom that issued all four decrees. So now we just got to ask ourselves a question well which decree which decree do we start counting from?

Now we know that this is it's got to be years. Why? Because the 70 weeks in Daniel chapter 9 is days of years. Are y'all following me? So if the 70 weeks, if the 490 days is really 490 years, then the larger portion from which it is taken from must also be years. And we know that because Daniel in his prayer is concerned about what he saw in Daniel 8. That's why he's praying. That's why he's fasting. He's like, "Hold on. I know God when you said that things were going to be rebuilt why the delay."

And the angel comes to explain to him in connection with Daniel chapter 8. So which decree? Which decree? There were four decrees given. Let's go to the screen. There were four decrees given. One was given by Cyrus 538. The next was given by Darius. The third was given by Artiserxes. And the fourth also by artis Xerxes. The first decree just built just dealt with the rebuilding of the temple in Jerusalem. The second decree was a affirmation to continue building the temple. The third decree is the one in which the city is rebuilt, a civil government is set up and and the laws of God are enforced.

And yes, Terry, you can't cut off 490 years from six and a half years. So which decree then do we count from? Remember the prophecy said the prophecy said know therefore and understand that from the going forth and commandment to restore and build not the temple but Jerusalem the city. The city had to be rebuilt not the temple. So notice then the first decree was just the temple. The second decree also just the temple. The third decree is found in the book of Ezra. And watch what this decree says.

And thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of thy God that is in thine hand, set magistrates, set magistrates and judges, which may judge all the people that are beyond the river. All such as know thy know the laws of thy God, and teach ye them that know them not. So, so check this out guys. It is when judges are set up in Jerusalem. It is that decree that fits the beginning of the 400 the beginning of the 2300 year prophecy. It is that decree. Remember, if the 490 is cut off from the 2300, which we've just seen that it is, then they both start at the same time.

And note this. Why is God starting the prophecy with a decree that restores the law and judgment? The law and judgment. Come on, y'all. Do not let me get excited all by myself right now. Why is God starting the 2300 day prophecy with the restoration of law and judges? I want you to note with me Isaiah 1 26 which prophetically said this. And I will restore thy judges as at the first and thy counselors as at the beginning. Afterward thou shalt be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city.

What did God say he was going to do through the prophet Isaiah? He's going to restore to Jerusalem judges and counselors. Now they've got their own system. Now the laws of God are in place and they have judges for judgment, judges for judgment, and laws for law. Why is God starting the 2300 day prophecy with this uniting of law and judgment? In fact, in fact, the people come out of Babylon, judgment is set up for judicial and civil authority, and God's law is highlighted. Did y'all catch that? How is a 2300 year prophecy going to begin on a local scale the same way it will culminate on a global scale.

God's people coming out of Babylon, a law being restored, and judgment being set up. You guys, you cannot make this stuff up. You can't make this stuff up. Revelation 14 7 and 8, I heard another angel flying in the midst of heaven. Verse 6, uh uh having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, verse 7, fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come, and worship him that made heaven, the earth, the sea, and the fountains of water.

And then verse eight, there followed another angel saying Babylon is fallen is fallen that great city because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. What are the odds that exactly what begins the 2300 years coming out of Babylon, the restoring of the law of God, and judgment being set up. What are the odds that those three things are exactly what happens on a global scale at the conclusion of the 2300 day 2300 year prophecy. It is almost as if God is saying, "I'm reinstating accountability and covenant justice among my people.

This is going to be the beginning of a final and cosmic judgment." Come on y'all. Are y'all following so done because we still have more to go. But I need you. Y'all just put a 10 in the chat if you're like, "Oh, but like you're pastor. I see it. I get it. We're looking at this thing from a thousand different angles, y'all. So then if you count from 457 BC and you add 2300 years, beloved, that's what brings you down to 1844. What's going to start happening in 1844, pastor? Are you saying that judgment is going to begin in 1844?

Are you saying that a law is going to be restored in 1844? Are you saying that there's going to be a people coming out of Babylon in 1844? No, I'm not saying that. That's what prophecy is saying. That's what prophecy is pointing out. So now the question is now the question is okay then well who is this little horn power? So, so far we've seen the context of Daniel shows that all the prophecies including the prophecy in Daniel 8 culminate with the second coming of Jesus. Therefore, we've also seen that the prophecy of Daniel 8 because the question is how long shall be the vision concerning the little horn?

That same vision has to do with the ram has to do with the heiggoat that the 2300 days spans the vision the entire vision. So we've seen that the 2300 days must be years. We we verify that because in Daniel chapter nine, Daniel is praying, Lord, I don't understand like you said 70 years we will be in desolation. And if you're attacking on another 6 and a half years or another 2,300 years, where help me, let me fast. Let me pray. Lord, help me to understand because I don't get it. The angel comes and says, "Listen, Daniel, let me give you understanding."

that time period that that sanctuary, we're talking about a different sanctuary because a sanctuary that you're thinking of, that sanctuary is going to be destroyed by the end of the 70 weeks. But this vision goes beyond the 70 weeks. Therefore, the sanctuary that you're thinking, all this is going to happen with the earthly sanctuary, the angel is saying, "No, no, no. I need you to see this is going to deal with another sanctuary that the Messiah himself will anoint. This will not be an earthly temple, Daniel.

The time period points to a temple that will not be that will a temple that is not the one that will be standing that was standing when Jesus came. All right. So, who's the little horn then? Come on. Let's let's we're not finished. Are y'all good? Let's keep moving. So, the question is, who then is this little horn of Daniel chapter 8? Because that's an objection as well. So we know that the metopers uh is the ram. We know that the hegoat is Greece. And then we know that four horns came out of the hegoat.

And those horns were represented by the four kingdoms under Talamy, Salucid, Cassander, and Lemicus. So the prophecy says in Daniel 8, therefore the hegoat waxed very great, and when he was strong, the great horn was broken. That's Alexander the Great. And for it came up four notable ones toward the four winds of heaven. And then it says these words, "And out of one of them came forth a little horn which waxed exceeding great toward the south and toward the east and toward the pleasant land." So here's a question you guys.

Is this little horn of Daniel 8 the same little horn of Daniel chapter 7? It would seem that this is this would be logical, but there's something that throws people off because this little horn is said to rise out of the Grecian Empire. So, so for example, in Daniel 2, we know that we have Babylon, me, Persia, Greece, Rome. In Daniel 7, we have Babylon, me, Persia, Greece, Rome. In Daniel 8, there's no Babylon. starts with me Persia. Then we have Greece. We have the four horns. And then the question is who?

Who is that little horn power that comes after the four horns of Greece? Is it a Greek power or is it a Roman power like we just saw in Daniel chapter 7 and Daniel chapter 2? Is it Antiochus Epiphanies or is it something much greater? Well, let me just read something to you and hopefully this will click once I read it. I'm not going to say much. I'm just going to read. Are y'all ready? Here we go. By the way, by the way, before we read before we read, let's let's come back. Before we read, hopefully y'all didn't see that cuz I need y'all to No, no, no, no, no, no.

Don't go. Good, good, good, good, good. So, if this little horn is Antiochus Epiphies, please understand that Daniel 8 takes a nose dive when it comes to the climax of the chapter. It just takes a straight nose dive because now we're concluding Daniel 8 with something that happened in 164 BC with Antiochus Epiphanies, you know, um making some little moment of persecution against the Jews and it ends right there which would be very antilimactic. So the only other option is that it's Rome. Just like Daniel 2, just like Daniel 7, it's Rome.

But how can you say that Rome rose out of Greece? So let's let's read something here. Ready? Let's go to the screen. Let's go to the screen. The Greco Roman Empire. A fusion of Greek and Roman cultures that significantly shaped Western civilization, influencing art, philosophy, politics, and law. The Greco Ro the Greco Roman. Are y'all catching this? The Greco Roman civilization emerged from the cultural and political interactions between ancient Greece and Rome. This blending began in the 2n century BC when the Romans conquered Greeks.

Conquered Greece. While the Romans were militarily dominant, they deeply admired Greek culture, leading to a significant cultural exchange that shaped both societies. Y'all heard of Greor Roman world? Greor Roman culture. Gre Greo Roman Empire. Let me read another one. Let me read another one. Here we go. Rome's Rome slowly overtakes Greece after the Battle of Corinth. uh after the battle of Corinth was just the beginning. Rome's conquest of Corinth did not lead to complete denomin uh complete domination of Greece immediately.

Greece was divided into republics which were then placed under the control of Roman Senate. The republics were eventually united and the A the A the Aan league uh a loose organization of northern states. This opened the door to to further victories over the rest of the Greek peninsula. After first invading Macedonia, the northernmost territory, a Roman province, Rome took its time. Instead of conquering, the conquerors methodically extended power over Greek cities through diplomacy and war. By 27 BC, the conquest was complete when Augustus Caesar made the entire Greek peninsula the province of Aaya.

Let me keep reading. What is interesting what is interesting is that the Rome is that after Rome conquered Greece, it is actually the Greek culture that influenced the Roman one. Usually, it's the other way around. Nations defeat, nations defeated. The Greek uh the Greek culture deeply influenced the Romans in many ways. First, Greek construction and architecture influenced the Romans. The Romans took the Greek column styles of Doric, ionic and cor and Corinthian and added their own style. The emperors Caesar Augustus rebuilt Athens with the construction of the Rome of the Roman agora.

A large concert hall called the Agrippa was built in 15 BC, etc., etc. Oh, so here we go. Wealthy Romans sought Greek tutors to teach their children. The literature and learning of Greece also influenced Roman scholars of the time. For example, Virgil was inspired by the tales of Homer to write his amiadid. Finally, the Greek language influenced the Romans. The Romans adopted the Greek culture, the Greek alphabet and changed it from Latin, which is the basis of many languages that exist today. Greece, listen to this y'all.

Greek became the trade language that united the the empire. All of the influences prompted Horus, the Roman poet, to conclude, watch this, captive Greece took captive her conqueror. All these articles are going to be in my slides that you will have access to. So, there are the sources and I just want I'm gonna read through these very quickly. uh Rome rules through the collapse of the Seucid Empire. So remember there were four empires the Seucid, Talamy, uh Lemicus and Cassander. The Salut the Seucid Empire was the dominant eastern Greek power.

After Alexander's death, his empire split into four horns including the Seucids in the east. The Seucid Empire ruled a vast region from Syria to Per to Persia, controlling much of the former Persian Empire. Watch this. Rome's entry into the eastern Mediterranean accelerated during the Syrian war in which they defeated Antiochus 3, the Seucid king. The Treaty of Apa stripped the slle of their western territories. Asia Minor went to Rome's went to Rome's allies. A lot of history here, but just follow along.

Rome, listen to this. Rome. According to Daniel 8:9, one of them came forth a little horn, which it waxed exceeding great toward the south, that would be Egypt, toward the east, the Seucid Empire, and toward the pleasant land, that is Rome. Rome fits the description of this little horn that waxes great that instead of overthrowing Greece, merged almost as it were merged and came up slowly conquering Greek territory through diplomacy and war. So note with me, and it waxed great even to the host of heaven, and it cast on some of the host of the stars to the ground and away, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down.

How do these verses fulfill? Well, let me read on. And a host was given him against the daily sacrifice by reason of transgression. It cast down the truth to the ground. It practiced and it prospered. So note with me please note how both pagan Rome and paple Rome which are both the little horn the little horn is pagan Rome in its pagan phase and then paple Rome they both did the same thing. No Rome is not the pleasant land Judea was the pleasant land and Rome conquered Judea. It it it waxed great towards the pleasant land.

So note this, the little horn wax great to the host of heaven. This was fulfilled by pagan Rome in their persecution of of Jews and Christians. It was fulfilled by papal Rome during the dark ages. Magnified himself to the prince of the host. It was pagan Rome that crucified Christ and it was papal Rome that rec replaced Christ with popes and priests. The daily was taken away. It was pagan Rome that destroyed the literal temple and it was papal Rome that obscured the priesthood of the heavenly temple.

Cast a sanctuary down. That was done by pagan Rome in in 70 AD. It was done by papal Rome by replacing the heavenly ministry with an earthly one. Cast the truth down to the ground. That was done by pagan Rome in its pagan phase persecuting Christians. It was done by papal Rome through doctrinal corruption and church traditions practiced and prospered. That was done by Rome's empire having a global reach. That was done by papal Rome in its papal dominance. In other words, beloved, Antiochus Epiphanies never cast a sanctuary down.

Did not dominate for 2,300 years. Not even 2,300 days. Antiochus Epiphanies cannot be the little horn of Daniel 8 because it is antilimactic. So then we're about to wrap this message up you guys. But here, here is the most beautiful thing that I hope you will ever hear about this teaching that is found in Daniel 8:14. Are y'all ready for this? We're about to end the sermon, but really the sermon is about to begin. So, so far we have seen that all the prophecies of Daniel, Daniel 2, 7,9 and 12 all culminate with the second coming of Christ.

Daniel 8 should be no different. We have seen that the question asked in Daniel 8 is how long shall be the vision? The vision spans from the Meo Persian Empire. It spans through Greece and now we see it spans through Rome all the way to papal Rome which means that the 2300 years must conclude sometime after this this reign of the papal Rome. Okay, we saw that the 2300 years must be 2,300 days must be years because they span the entire vision. We see that in Daniel chapter 9. It is in fact an answer to Daniel chapter 8.

Why? Because Daniel is confused about the time element. There's not even a sanctuary standing. How can the all this stuff be happening with a temple that's not yet standing? So the angel comes to explain to him and says no 70 weeks will be revolving around the sanctuary that will be rebuilt but the remainder of it is going to be another sanctuary one that is one that will be anointed by Jesus the Messiah himself. We've seen then we've also seen that the little horn that rises out or that rises in Daniel 8 is the very same little horn of Daniel 7.

In Daniel 7, the little horn is just the papacy. But the p but in Daniel 7, the little horn is on the fourth beast which is pagan Rome. So Daniel 8 takes the little horn symbol and combines the beast and the horns of Daniel 7. The little horn of Daniel 8 is simply one symbol being used to describe Rome in its pagan phase and then Rome in its papal phase. The little horn is chosen because the message is designed to lead us not to think so much about pagan Rome as it is to focus upon papal Rome. And now, and now comes the bombshell.

So remember back in Daniel 8:2, come with me. Daniel 8:2, "And I saw in vision, and it came to pass when I saw that I was at Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elum, and I saw in a vision, and I was by the river Eli." Why does God take Daniel into a kingdom that is not yet standing? Come on. So, Shushan is mentioned 21 times in the Bible. One of those 21 times, we're not going to go to the screen yet, just come back for a moment. One of those times is in Daniel 8:2. The other time, which we read earlier, was in Nehemiah 1 verse one.

The next the other 19 times that Shusan is mentioned is in the book of Esther. Y'all put that word in. Put that name in the chat for me. Please put that book in the chat for me, please. The book of Esther. Why is the palace of Shushan mentioned in the book of Esther? And my bad. Did I say did I say uh Greece earlier? Did I say Greece earlier? I think I said Greece earlier. It is Meo Persia. It is me Persia. The book of Esther mentions the palace of Susan 19 times. Come on, let's go to the screen.

Let's go to the screen. Please note with me Esther chapter 1 verse two that in those days when the king Ahazerus sat on his throne which was in Shushan the palace. Do y'all see this? The king Ahazerus sat on his throne, the throne of his kingdom which was in Shushan the palace. Why is God bringing our attention to the future place, the future kingdom, the future capital of the kingdom where a very specific event takes place in this palace. Y'all go ahead and put a 10 in the chat if you see if you see what's coming.

Let's go to the screen. How many of you know the story? You know the story of of Esther? So, um, in fact, no, no, no. Let's come back. Let's come back. Let's come back. In the book of Esther, um you have uh a guy by the name of Hmon. Yes, remember Hmon. And you have a woman by the name of Esther. And you have King Asherus. And then you have Mori. And early on in the story, you'll remember that there's a plot to kill the king. And Mori foils the plot. He foils the plot. so when when when Morai falls apart, note with me, Esther chapter 2:23, note with me, um, and when inquisition was made of the matter, it was found out, therefore they were both hanged on a tree, and it was written in the book of Chronicles before the king.

So then watch this you guys in this story in this event that is going to happen in the palace of Shushan where the king sits Mori who had saved the king's life has his deeds please write that out for me his deeds are written in a book you all can go ahead Go ahead and if you'd like to go ahead and put a 10 in the chat, go ahead and put a 10 in the chat. His deeds are written in a book. Now, the story does not end there, of course. What else happens? Uh there's a man by the name of Hmon. And Hmon um is angry because Mori, you remember the story, refused to bow to Hmon.

So, Hmon wants to kill all the Jews. So, what's going to happen is there's going to be a death decree issued. There's going to be a death decree issued. And notice what it says here. And Hmon said unto King Azerus, "There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the people in all of the provinces of that kingdom. And their laws are diverse from all people. Neither keep they the king's law. Therefore, it is for the king's profit. It is not for the king's prophet to suffer them. If it please a king, let it be written that they may be destroyed, and I will pay 10,000 talons of silver to the hands of those that have the charge of the business to bring into the king's treasuries.

So, there's a death decree. Why is there a death decree being issued? There's a death decree being issued because of a people. Because Hmon wants to destroy a people who keep laws that are different from the laws of that kingdom. These guys are commandment keepers. They keep God's law. There ought to be a death decree to wipe them out. Are y'all following so far? All of this beloved is happening at Shushan. So Mori's deeds have been written in a book. There is a death decree. You all remember yall remember uh that that uh in in fact check this out.

So how do they decide what day they are going to destroy the Jews? Does anyone remember? We're not going to put this on the screen yet. Does anyone remember in this story, how do they decide when they're going to carry out this death decree? When they're going to carry out this annihilation, what do they do? They did something. Anybody knows how they fell upon the day in which they decided, "This is when we're going to wipe out the So, let's go to the screen. Let's go to the screen. Um, in fact, let's go back here.

A date was chosen by casting So remember how we said when Hmon saw that Mordei bowed not nor did he reverence then Hmon was full of wrath. The dragon was angry full of wrath and thought to scorn to lay hands on Mordei alone for they shued him the people of Mori. And wherefore Hmon sought to destroy all the Jews that were throughout the kingdom of Azerus even the people of Mori. We couldn't get M I couldn't get Mori to bow. Couldn't get Jesus to bow. So I'm angry. I'm going to go after I couldn't destroy Jesus.

I'm angry. I'm going to go after his people. This is exactly what's happening here, you guys. This is exactly what's going on here. Watch this. Watch this. So, in the first month, that is the month of N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N Nissan, in the 12th year of the king Asherus, they cast purr, that is the lot before Hmon from day to day and from month to month to the 12 month that is the month of Ada. The reason they were casting lots, the reason they were casting lots was to decide.

Listen y'all, they were casting lots. Do lots bring anything to your mind? The idea of lots and um and books and and uh decrees. Does does any of this bring anything to your mind? The Bible says in Revelation 12:17, "The dragon was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus." These people don't keep our laws, they ought to be put to death. But hold on, hold on, hold on. Watch this, you guys. So watch what happens.

If it please a king, so we know that there's uh, you know, he's going to pay talents. And the king took his ring from his hand, and gave it unto Hmon, the son of uh Hamdatha, the Agite, the Jews enemy. And the king said unto Hmon, "The silver is given to thee. The people also do with thee, as it seemed good." Then there were the king scribes called on the 13th day of the first month. And there was written according to all that Hmon had commanded, unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors that were over every province, and to the rulers of every people of every province, according to the writing.

And the king sealed it with his ring. There's a seal. There's there's there's a death decree. There are lots. I need y'all to understand what's going on here, beloved. Because if you're like, "Hm, all of this sounds familiar. All of this books and and and lots and and and a judgment and keeping the commandments of God and a death decree." Hold on, you guys. Could it be that Shan is a p? The reason why God put Daniel in the palace of Shusan before the events of Shusan took place was that God was showing Daniel this is what Daniel chapter 8 is going to revolve around.

Not only will the prophecy begin with the decree where the people of God are keeping the commandments, where judgment, where judges are set in place, a and where the laws of God are brought together, and where the people come out of Babylon. But but in the very place that you're having this vision, something will unfold that will give you insight into what I mean by this little horn attacking the people of God and seeking to destroy the people of God. But somehow God is going to intervene and reverse stuff and re and Could it be beloved?

Could it be? Come back with me to Esther 4:13. Mori commanded Esther, "Think not to say to thyself that thou shalt escape the king's house more than all the Jews. Uh for if thou altogether holdeth that th holdeth thy peace at this time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. And who knows whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this. Watch this. Verse 15. Then Esther bade them return Mori this answer.

Go gather all the Jews that are present in Shushan and fast for me. And neither eat nor drink three days nor nights. I also and my maidens will likewise fast and I will go in unto the king which is not according to the law and if I perish I perish. Esther goes in before the king the inner chambers of the king to intercede on behalf of her people. Why does God have Daniel? Why of God put Daniel in the palace of Shushan for this vision? It is interesting that in Daniel 7:3 and 14, the Bible says, "I saw in visions by night, and behold, one like the son of man came with the clouds of heaven and came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him, and there was given him dominion and glory and power, h a kingdom that all peoples and nations should serve him."

This, beloved, in Daniel 7 is a vision of Christ entering into some place to stand before the king and to receive a people, to save a people. What does that have to do with the little horn? What does that have to do with the little Hmon, the little horn? I'm sorry. What does that have to do on that night? Watch this. So, the night the night that that that that that the king gives this command, the Bible says on that night, the king could not sleep. And he commanded to bring the book of records of the chronicles.

And they were read before the king. And it was found written that Mori had told Big Dana and Terish, two of the king's chamberlains, the keepers of the doors, who sought to lay hand on the king Ahazurus. How is King Azerus going to be looking at books, reviewing books? Come on y'all. I'm not going to ask for a 10 in the chat. I'mma ask for a 20 in the chat. If you are catching the massive significance of what is going on right now, Azurus opens the books and reviews the deeds of the righteous. And it is that review of the deeds of the righteous that will reverse what the little horn had planned.

I'm sorry. What Hmon had planned, it will reverse people talking about they're afraid of the judgment. Listen to me, guys. It is the review of the books that is in favor of God's people. Daniel 7:9 and 10. I beheld till thrones were cast down and the ancient of days did sit whose garment was white as snow and the hair of his head like the pure wool. His throne was like the fiery flame and his wheels as burning fire. A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him. Thousand thousands ministered unto him and 10,000 times 10,000 stood before him.

The judgment was set and the books were opened. Why does God bring Daniel into the palace of Shushan, which is most likely not even standing when Daniel has his vision? Why does God supernaturally take Daniel into this place, this palace of the future king Ahazurus where he's going to open books and review characters and review deeds and overturn? Why? All because of the intercession of this woman who goes in on behalf of her people to intercede on their behalf. Esther chapter 6:3-5. We're almost done, y'all.

We are almost done. And the king said, "What honor and dignity has been done to Mori for this?" Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, "There is nothing done for him." And the king said, "Who is in the court?" Now Hmon was coming to the outward court of the king's house to speak unto the king to hang Morortei on the gallows that he had prepared for him. And the king's servant said unto him, "Behold, Hmon standeth in the court." And the king said, "Let him come in." And y'all know the rest of the story.

The king said unto Azeras, or the king Azarus said unto, "Let me pause. Let me pause. Come back. Let's let's let's get off the screen." So the judgment reverses what was going to happen to Mori. Morortei is blessed instead of killed. And then Esther reveals the plot of Hmon to the king. And I want you to watch what happens in verse chapter 7 5 and 6. Then King Azerus answered and said unto Esther the queen, "Who is he and where is he that dur presume in his heart to do so?" And Esther said, "The adversary, Satan, the adversary and an enemy is this wicked Hmon."

Then Hmon was afraid before the king and the queen. And y'all know what happens next, right? Do you do you guys know what happens next? What happens next is that Hmon is killed. Why is this so interesting? In Leviticus 16 7 and 8, talking about the day of atonement, the day of judgment, there were lots cast. There were lots that were cast in Leviticus 16:7. The Bible says, "And he shall take the two goats and present them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats, one lot for the Lord Mori.

One lot for the Lord and the other lot for the See, when these lots are cast, the the the thing that was supposed to destroy Mori ended up destroying Hmon. This is what the judgment does, guys. In this on the day of atonement, two lots were cast. one for the Lord, the other for the scapegoat. The scapegoat will ultimately suffer and ultimately be punished because of the judgment. In other words, beloved, the story of Esther, the story of what happened in the palace at Shushan has direct relevance to what is happening in Daniel chapter 8.

A king on a throne with books, a judgment, lots being cast, the reversal, the reversal of that which was meant to destroy God's people now being the means by which they are delivered. And this is where the Jews established the feast of Purim, the celebration of Purim. Let's go to the screen. We're almost done here. We got just a few more slides. This verse records the establishment of the f of the feast of Purim, commemorating the Jews deliverance from Hmon's plot of extermination. The celebration was instituted as an annual memorial to remind future generations of God's providential care.

After the dramatic reversal of fortune where Hmon was executed on the very gallows he had prepared for Morai, the Jews were granted permission by King Azerus to defend themselves against their enemies. Their victory over those who sought to destroy them transformed the days intended for their destruction into days of triumph. So many of us see the judgment of God as a thing that is supposed to destroy us. When beloved, it is a thing that is designed to deliver us from the y'all. The name Purum comes from the Persian word purr, meaning lot.

It's on the screen. Referring to how Hmon had cast lots to determine the day for destroying the Jews. What began as a scheme for annihilation became a celebration of deliverance marked by four key elements. One, feasting together in communal joy. Two, sending gifts of food. Three, giving charable. Four, reading the story of Esther. This joyous festival continues to be celebrated by the Jews worldwide. It is a reminder of God's protective hand over his people. Beloved, the judgment is about God's vindication of his people.

Note the parallels. a death decree in the end times paralleling a a judgment based on records on books in Daniel chapter 7. Intercession by a mediator Esther as a type of Christ. Condemnation of the wicked, vindication of the righteous. Come on y'all. The feast of Purum originates from the events of Shashan. And pure is a celebration of deliverance and reversal of fate from condemnation to redemption. This resonates with the cleansing of the sanctuary in Daniel 8:14. A restoration of truth, vindication of God's people, and a public reversal of Satan's accusation.

Come on, y'all. So, what are the parallels? God, the king, examines the record books. Jesus, the intercessor, plead for his people. Satan the accuser is ultimately expo exposed and the righteous are vindicated and the wicked condemned. You cannot make this stuff up y'all. What are the parallels in the book of Esther? Royal throne and laws intercession by Ether Esther. Book of records uh Hmon accused vindication of Mori. Death decree reversed. Beloved, listen. What more is there to say? How in the world?

How in the world can we say that Daniel 8 was fulfilled in Antiochus Epiphanies, which much of the world don't even know who that is, what he did? How in the world can the grand scheme of the book of Daniel How in the world can the grand scheme of the book of Daniel just suddenly disappear off the page in Daniel chapter 8? How can that be? How can it be that there are literally thousands of ways to prove what Daniel chapter 8 is referring to? And yet people want to say that's not in the Bible. Where did you get that from?

How? How? What did we just do? We just stayed in the book of Daniel. That's all we did. We just said, "Hey, we're going to take all our cues from the book of Daniel. We're going to look at the themes of the chapters. We're gonna see that they're all they all span thousands of years. They all culminate in a grand theme of judgment of the second coming Jesus. The angel literally asks how long is the vision? The vision exps me Persia, Greece, Rome, paple Rome. How can 2300 days be days and not years?

We've seen Daniel 9 as an answer to Daniel 8. We've seen Daniel 9 was to clarify what what Daniel was thinking about Daniel 8. No, no, no. This is not a earthly temple. This is a heavenly sanctuary. We've seen that shushet. We've seen the little horn cannot be Antioch's epiphanies. We've seen this Greco Roman rise to power with Rome ultimately conquering all of Greece. Not like Babylon, not like meers did Babylon. Not like Greece did me. Rome took time and and blended in with Greece to come into power.

And then we've seen that beautiful key of why God has Daniel in Shushan. Beloved, the truth of God's word is unassalable. if you will only accept it and not bring well it can't be true because the majority of people don't think this it can't be true because this it can't be true oh this this teaching just came from you know this this extra biblical prophet or this teaching just came from from Ellen White and without Ellen White you can't you can't you can't without really you guys this is this is Bible all day this This is all we've done.

Bible. No commentators. No, just Bible and history. Heavenly Father, thank you for speaking. Open our eyes and help us to trust truth. Help us to believe truth. Help us to follow truth. Thank you Lord for speaking. Thank you for teaching us today. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. I'm going to invite you all to the uh afterlow. We're going to put the link in the chat. Uh the afterglow is no longer on Altar Live. It is going to be on Mighty Networks. And so um uh please go ahead and put it in the chat.

By the way, let me put up um let me put up this closing slide. So, if you want to get uh access uh you can either connect on our social media um prayer request, you'll see it up there as well. And I believe that there should be nope there is no uh link for these sermons or for these for these slides but um there will be a link put up uh on under under the link in the YouTube channel on living mana uh as well as probably our mighty network. So with that said guys may God bless you. Thank you for hanging in there with me today.

I know today we went longer than usual but I told you today was going to be a study not so much a sermon. And um again, may God bless you, may God keep you, and uh may God continue to guide you into all truth. Amen. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God.

It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.