Hello um YouTube friends, Facebook uh friends. Good evening. Good evening. Um I am just uh jumping on to take another few minutes like I did a couple of uh days ago, actually last week to um let you know about the revelation in seven days course that is coming up. Um, it was going to be starting this Sunday, but uh because of some uh travel issues, I wasn't able to start the Daniel in seven days until Monday. That is seven days. So, that's going to go through until Sunday. Meaning that instead of Revelation in seven days starting on Sunday evening, this coming Sunday, it will be starting on Monday evening.

However, if you have not signed up yet, I want to encourage you to do so. Um we are on night number three of our Daniel in seven days study. And uh I tell you these classes um they are really really powerful. Um tonight tonight I'm going to be sharing something with my Daniel in seven days class that I have not shared before ever anywhere. and um they are they will be hearing it for the first time and uh they're excited. Uh so when I say these classes are going really well um I strongly encourage you uh if you want more than a surface understanding of the book of uh Daniel or revelation.

Uh the Daniel class has already started. So this go around it it is I would say it's too late. You could still join but um I would say wait until the next Daniel class. But the Revelation one has not started yet. That starts this coming Monday. And I would strongly encourage you if you want to get a deeper understanding of the book of Revelation, like I shared in my previous uh previous live that one of the key things for me in studying prophecy when I came into this church was not just understanding the what, but understanding the why.

And I'll tell you guys, it's a beautiful thing to see people in this class who say, "Hey, I've never really been able to grasp the book of Daniel." um after two hours of teaching say things like I have never heard Daniel like this before. Um I understand it at a depth just from one class. I understand it um from a depth that I have not understood it from before. And uh we have seven nights of this. So to hear people responding like that after night one um is is a tremendous blessing. So, how do you sign up for the class?

Um, I'm going to put the link in the description after this video is uploaded, but I'll say it here as well. The link is my photoology.com. my photoology.com. Uh, if you go to that site, you will see the Daniel class, you will see the revelation class, and you will see the date for that class. It is uh two hours of teaching every night. So, seven nights, two hours of teaching, live teaching, interactive teaching. For those of you that sign up for the class, you will have access to all the recordings.

Um, you will have access to the PDFs. Um, but most of all, you will have access to a deeper understanding of this book. So, listen you guys, I'm teaching Daniel and Revelation all the time, right? Um you can go to my YouTube page and find information there. But what I'm doing with this class um I'm doing in a very concentrated way in which I can't really do um in another setting. This is live. It is interactive question and answers. Uh so it's just a different setting alto together than what I typ typically put out there.

But having said that even if you watch put out there, I promise you, your understanding of Daniel and Revelation is going to get better. However, if you want to really go beyond the surface, I'm again going to encourage you to join this class. Um, and I will leave it there. So, I got to actually get ready for tonight's class. And tonight's class, you guys, again, um, you know, we try not to make these classes too big so that we can I can interact with each student. Um, so that's why I'm doing multiple classes, right?

Same classes over and over. So, if you miss this one, you can get the ne you can get into the next setting, the next class, which will probably be in January. Um, but tonight's class I am super excited about because uh it's on Daniel 7. And you would think, well, we know what we need to know about Daniel 7, but I promise you, yeah, tonight is going to be different. and you will eventually hear it because I I will def I will eventually share this um with the public, but they get to be uh they get to be the first hearers of this very powerful study tonight on Daniel 7.

So, uh with that said, guys, peace. I'm gonna again put the link to the um to the uh study um or to the class, I'm sorry, uh in the comments or under the description of the YouTube video in the comments on Facebook. So, if you want to join uh Revelation in seven days, you can feel free to do so. If you still want to join the Daniel class, we are only on night tonight is going to be night three. And I would say we got an hour and 20 minutes before that class starts. Sign up if you want to, but if you miss tonight, I would definitely say wait until the second wait until the next class around um where I'll do Daniel in seven days again um and sign up for the whole thing.

All right, so with that said, guys, I will um say have a good evening and uh be blessed. Hope to see you in class