Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Well, Welcome back, Living Mana Church family. We are so happy that you are here worshiping with us for divine worship service today on this Sabbath day. If you were if you missed or were not a part of our Sabbath school today, you're going to have to go back and watch that because it was a recap of last week's sermon on um 1844 and the investigative judgment. So, you're going to want to go back and watch that. and Pastor Meyer's sermon is going to be part two to that topic as well.

So, this is a very important topic and you do not uh want to miss it and you want to understand it for yourself. And so, we really encourage you to go back and to view that. Also, please like and share this link and put it on your social media. Invite people to church today. let them know that uh you are worshiping here with Living Man Church and they don't want to miss the blessing that you're about to receive here. So, invite people to receive a blessing as well. Please let us know where you're viewing from.

Put in the chat where you're viewing from so we can say a special welcome to you. Put a one if this is your very first time because we want to tell you more about our online church. And if you already put during our first service uh where you were viewing from, you don't have to do it again. But please, if you're just joining us now for the first time and you were not able to do that during the first service, please let us know because again, I want to say a very, very special welcome to all of you.

So, with that said, I am just waiting for the first person to put where they're viewing from because again, we want to say a very special welcome to you. And we're just thankful that um half of those who were um in the first program have now joined us because we have a second link. This is the second link for today. Sabbath school is its own link. But okay, we have um Threshold from Threshold of Hope Africa and from Nairobi, Kenya. Welcome to Living Mana Church. Uh Sister Jerry from San Diego. She just became an official member today.

She's been working with us for the last few years, but official member today. So, welcome. Always happy to see you here. Crystal Cox, you know, it's always a blessing to see you here. Um as well, so glad that you are here. We have, they're going up kind of fast now. From Barbados. I saw Barbados. Okay. Blessing Joy from Barbados. Welcome. Okay, we have uh Nancy from Connecticut and we're so good to see you here. Daisy from the state of Tennessee, our neighboring state. Good to hear you. It's good to see you here and I hear you.

Um good to see you here. Christoph Christopher from Wildwood, Florida. Good to see you here. Um, let's see. Karen from New York. We have Anna from uh Aoka, Florida. I think I said that right. I think I said that wrong, actually. Aka, Florida. Okay. From Florida. Um, Ivan Dayton, Ohio. Good to see you. Jennifer from Tennessee. Daria, you're from Indianapolis, Indiana. Good to see you here um as well. And then we have Back to Eden Ministries. And that's Eden and from um South Africa. So good to see all of you here.

Welcome to Living Mana Church. We have Andre from Toronto. Welcome to Thank Thank you for being here. We're so happy that you're here. Again, if this is your first time, please put a one in the chat so I can just tell you a little bit of more about the church, but you're going to hear some about it in the announcement. And so, uh, we're just thankful that you are all here. Vivian from Fagatville, North Carolina. I went there, actually flew into North Carolina. Been to there. It's a small little airport on a small little plane, but I've been there.

So, welcome. Welcome to Living Manage Church. And Randy Preston, you're a one. Welcome. We are so happy that you are here worshiping with Living Manage Church. Uh today, it's such a blessing to have you here. Uh we have Threshold of Hope from Africa. You're also a one. Let's see. So, Ry's a one. Daisy's a one. Threshold of hope is a one. All right. To all my ones, let me tell you about Living Manage Church. It is a completely online um line church. I'm not ignoring the Bay Area, you know. Okay, the Bay Area is my my last home before we came here.

I love the Bay Area. Any welcome from all of you from the Bay Area. All right, to my ones, Living Man Church is a 100% online 7th Day Adventist church. So, all of our programming is online. Um and we have members from all around uh the world and we are so thankful for that. But we have programming as you are here with us on Sabbath. So we have programming every Sabbath. We have uh which is on Saturday and which is today and we have programming on mental health which is on Monday and mental health Mondays is just what it sounds like.

We talk about all things mental health from mental health professionals. I'm one. We have my other co-host is Dr. Ricardo White. He is a psychiatrist. I'm a licensed marriage and family therapist. And so we talk about all the issues of mental health. And then on True Health Tuesdays, we have we talk about everything with health, right? And we're going to talk about that what this week's topic is about. But um we have a licensed nutritionist. We have two um doctors. One is a is a MD, one is a naturopathic doctor who is licensed.

And so they share things about health and healthy living and lifestyle. And so you can go u these are live programs and you get to you get to ask your questions and do all of those things um for true health Tuesdays and mental health Monday. And then on Wednesday we have power Wednesday. Our prayer team leads out on that. Uh but now we just started a new program for prayer on Wednesday that goes along with Power Wednesday. Um well there's prayer happening on both of the programs and that's the power line.

And so it's a live interactive. You you you're live there. You send in your prayer. They pray for your prayer request right then. And so that's been a powerful um extra component that we have added just recently to Living Manage Church. And then on Thursdays we have practical living with our um young adult pastor Loami Richardson. So just to share with you those who are just coming here today for the first time, we have programming all throughout the week for you. Now because we have programming all throughout the week, we know that your week and lifestyle is busy.

So for you to stay connected to Living Manage Church and be reminded of our live programming that happens all throughout the week and so you don't miss anything, you should sign up to get text alerts. And the way that you are able to do that is right there on your screen. You can text 85. You can text LMC to 855. Um, and that will um be able to to sign you up to get text alerts. And so again, you just text LMC to that 855-207-4107 and that will keep you connected to Living Manurch all throughout the week.

So you will not miss anything. Now, that's for if you are here in the United States. Again, if you're not in the United States, you can't sign up for the text messages. But what you can do is sign up for our virtual church home, which is Mighty Net Networks. That is where that is Living Mana Church online home church if you will. That is our home, our hub, our base, because all of these announcements and everything you hear me talking about, you're going to be able to find on mighty networks. and the reminders are there as well so that you will be able to stay connected if you are somewhere outside of the United States.

And so again, that's where you learn about our small groups and you can join and participate and get to know people. Our community is formed there on Mighty Network. So you can get to know people there um and figure out which small group you want to join and be a part of. And just so many great information is there on Mighty Network. So please sign up for mighty networks. Whether you are out of the state or in the United States, everyone who wants to be a part of living at a church needs to sign up for mighty network so that you can stay connected and be a part of our church community.

Also want to let you know that we have Locosc Kids and the leadership that helps us there. and LMLC kids starts at 11:30 Central time. And you can get your kids involved by texting kids to 855207-4107 or you can send an email there at living mana or LOC kids at living.urch and uh someone will get back to you so you can get your kids involved in LOC kids. And again, it starts 11:30 central time and it lasts for about an hour and a half. Want to also remind you of how you can become a member of LivingMana Church.

You see that email there, patrice livinga.live, you can email Patrice. Um, if you are wanting to uh transfer your membership, you email Patrice at that email. If you're wanting to join by profession of faith because you've already been baptized, but you want to be a member of this 7th Day Adventist Church and here specifically Living Mana, then you can do a profession of faith. or if you want to get baptized by Pastor Meyers, you need to email patrice livingmana.live. Um, and so those are the way that you those are the ways that you become a member here at living manana church.

We also want to let you know that pastor does have virtual office hours and again that same email patrice livinga.live live. That is how you will be able to get set up with Pastor Myers and to set up a virtual office appointment with him. If you are watching on Power of the Lamb YouTube channel, we would like for you to go over to my Living Mana uh YouTube channel, like and subscribe because we are trying to grow the uh Living Mana Church channel. Um, and for if you go over there and subscribe and like, that will help us to be able to grow our church YouTube channel.

If you have a prayer request, you can send that in to our prayer team who is definitely going to be praying over your request. And you can do that by sending them an email at praylivymana.urch. If you go if you uh sign up for Mighty Networks, you can put a prayer request on uh the prayer wall and you can text pray to that 855 number. Um those are all the ways that you can send in your prayer request and our prayer team is going to pray over your request until God answers that prayer. And all we ask is that when God answers your prayer, please send uh a testimony into that email so that Amar can get it.

And if it's okay with you, she can share uh with the Living Man of Church family the answer uh to your prayers. And so that is how you can get prayer requests to our prayer team. We announced earlier in our first um in Sabbath school that the convocation as was planned uh before is cancelled. It is officially cancelled. Um and God is having us pivot in another direction and we are hoping that you will join us and where go where God is leading us to. We're still going to get together. We do not have the time, the date or the or I should say the date or location yet, but we're going to get together and we are going to do God's work together.

And so our fellowship is going to look a little bit different, but it is still going to be such a blessing because this is the way that God is leading us and this is what he's calling us to do. And so we are excited and we want you to please stay tuned um to all of the announcements and just you know you you're going to get things through uh Mighty Networks. you'll be able to find out information and I will be announcing um as information is coming through each and every week. So, you're not going to want to miss any of that uh because we'd love to see you there for the the situation that or the pivot that we're making, I should say.

We are going to need volunteers and all of your help. And I promise that we are going to make it to be as costeffective for you as possible. So, it won't be as as pricey as what we were planning before, but we're looking forward to what God um is doing moving forward. Wanted to just tell you guys about uh something new called Hangouts that Living Manage Church is is going going to be doing here and to be starting here um in the near future. So, um are you passionate about building an authentic Christ-c centered community?

Do you enjoy connecting with others and helping people feel seen, heard, and valued? If so, Living Mana Church needs you. Uh, very soon, Living Mana will be launching a new Hangouts ministry, and we are looking for Hangouts to help lead our small group Zoom sessions. These hangouts are all about community connection, and conversation. And as a hangout host, you will guide your group through fun ice breakers, meaningful dialogue, hobbies, interests, and just plain fun. Yeah. uh you'll receive training and resources, grow your leadership and communication skills, and most importantly, you will be helping others experience real fellowship within the LMLC family.

And so, we are looking forward to to that be starting and beginning. But, um the first information session, as you can see there on your screen, is Sunday, June 29th, 700 p.m. Central time. Um so you are if you sign up for um if you sign up for Mighty Networks and to get text alerts you will get more information about that. You can also scan that QR code hangouts.urch. Um you can email um you can send an email there and you can just scan that QR code for more information. So we are definitely looking forward uh to that.

Okay. So, um, we have, like I already mentioned the power line. The power line I already mentioned that we're doing that. So, we don't want you guys to miss that. That's at 6:30 p.m. and it's live. So, send your friends, your co-workers, your family members. Let them know, hey, tune in because our church will pray for you right now, right here on the spot, right? So, we want people to just be scrolling through social media and see that we're praying and just stop and just put their prayer request in.

Um, but you could also share. We need you to share and tell people our church is praying. So, this is a great way for you to introduce people to our church. Um, and it's like an evangelistic uh tool as well because we're of course your your friends and your family that may be Adventists. Definitely tell them that we're praying, but we want you to really share uh with your your non-Adventist friends and family that may be going through something and just say, "Hey, my church will pray for you. All you have to do is tune in right here and we will pray.

Just want to remind you guys that Mental Health Monday is coming back this Monday. It is our grand finale for season 3 and then we will return at the beginning of September, but we will be we will be returning live, but during uh the summer months, we will be uh doing replays of some of the powerful We've been doing this for three years. So, we have quite a library of of programs that Dr. Dr. White and I have done and uh the mental health information that you're going to get is by God's grace some really good information that's going to help you through a lot of situations.

We also have True Health Tuesday that uh is this week. U Dr. Maria Humel will be doing a live True Health Tuesday and you're not going to want to miss that at 700 PM Central. Um, she is talking about uh sugar being a poison. I repeat, sugar being a poison. So, you're not going to want to miss that. Her information has been so good, guys. You're getting some great information on to help you make better choices um with your diet to help your overall body. Also wanted to announce that next week, next Friday, starting Friday at uh 7 PM Central time, is another Hearts on Fire virtual marriage retreat.

And so we care about your marriages. Um and so um and we want your marriages to thrive. And so I am hosting uh the Hearts on Fire virtual marriage retreat. And again, I'm a licensed marriage and family therapist, and I have helped hundreds of couples throughout the years find their passion and rekindle the fire that has gone out or dwindled to a very, very low burn, if you will. And I uh just want to tell you sometimes uh I tell my husband, I said, I think some and I think I know that I uh work myself out of a job, if you will.

And that is my goal. That is my goal. like I want to help couples uh in such a way that they don't need me anymore. And by God's grace, I have to say, and this is not me uh boasting of me. I really believe it's God and him showing me how to do things, but I really um can do it in a relatively quick in a quick way. Not that you won't continue to work on your stuff, but I can train and teach you how to have a healthier, better marriage. Um and it does not take terribly long at all. So, I say that to say if you are wanting um to just get the to become more reconnected, to get the fire burning and with the passion that you had when you first got together, um and if you're if you're in if you're in even rough times right now, this marriage retreat is for you.

But I would just like for for you to hear what others have said that have attended the retreat and what what their experience was. So, I just want to share that with you at this time. Hi, my name is Amora Soell and this is my husband Terry Soell. And we were so blessed to attend a Tante Meyers Hearts on Fire marriage retreat, the very first one. And it was such a huge blessing in our lives. We learned so many different tools about communicating, about um differences in personality, conflict resolution, the importance of quality time and going on weekly date nights, and the importance of sex.

So, it covers a little bit of everything um in a marriage that you kind of identify the things that you need to work on. And it's it was great. Absolutely. It was great and a perfect title by the way because all these uh tools that Atanton taught us during the marriage retreat retreat um allows us to keep the flame burning in our in our relationship and allows us to grow together and um you know and that takes work of course you know I really love the the the tool about um effective communication and active communication rather than passive communication.

In other words, you know, all of us find ourselves uh kind of being defensive and waiting uh formulating a response in our mind while our our maid is speaking. But what what the tool that she gave us does is it requires that we listen carefully and repeat back exactly what was said, what's being said to us. And that discipline, you know, it takes some work, but uh what it does is it allows you to actually really feel and understand and experience what your mate is feeling and what they're thinking and what they're going through and and it helps them to know, hey, you're actually hearing me out and listening.

And that's powerful for your relationship. The other thing's date night, you know, um we went on a lot of dates uh before we were married and and um I can remember uh she paid for the first date and I've been paying for everyone ever since. So I thought, well, I can get married now and get a break. But no, dates are important because it keeps the romance going, keeps the fire burning bright, and gives you something really to look forward to. So it's my beautiful retreat. It's actually my favorite night besides Sabbath.

So yeah, those are just a couple examples of some of the tools that you would learn. Awesome retreat at the marriage retreat. It's so worth it. I pray it's a huge blessing to you and your spouse. Amen. So yes, I'm looking forward to that retreat and hopefully having you and your spouse there. Wanting you to know that you could just go to you can rewatch this if you need to scan the QR code or go to newbeginncounseling.com and that's nu-bounsonseling.com. Also wanted to let you guys know that Afterglow, if you've been here for the last few weeks, if you've gone to the Afterglow, it has moved.

And so Afterglow is no longer on um on Altter Live. It is on um Mighty Networks. And so it moved on May 24th, 2025, just a few weeks ago. Um and so it is it is there. So for you, if you wanting to participate in the afterglow after the sermon and talk about what you hear and what you've learned and to fellowship there, please join us on Afterglow. Um, but it's on Mighty Networks. And so, Pastor Myers and I are always there. Um, and so we're not leading out. We're not the host, but we're there. So, if you have questions for him, you can he'll be able to answer some of those for you as well.

So definitely join us on Mighty Networks and you'll get a reminder um towards the end of the sermon to go there and to join us there. So we are excited about that. Want to just always remind you guys about LOC Global. Want you guys to keep LC Global in your prayers and um it is just such a blessing to have Locosc Global is taking Pastor Meyer's uh sermons and we're going to be translating the sermons and some of the Sabbath schools as well into seven different languages. And so that is our capability right now that we can go into seven different languages.

And we just want to give you a preview and to remind you to go to LMOC Global. Um it has its own YouTube channel as you can see down there. Um it down there in the right hand corner. So if you know someone that speaks these languages, please share these messages in their language. So we just want to give you guys an example of what that looks like. Please continue to keep Alamosi Global in your prayers. Again, it is a blessing to be able to go into all of the world and right now in at least seven different languages of the world and we want to grow uh the languages that we're able to go to all the world with.

And so just continue to pray and you can financially support Living Mana Global by going to Adventist giving uh.org. You can go there. That is where you are able to virtually support Living Mana Church to give your tithe and to give your offering. Also, you can um see all the other things that Living Manage Church supports. And so, you're able to go there. Adventistgiving.org is a great way. You can even plan your systematic giving to where they just automatically withdraw it. I mean, it's just easy.

Sometimes it's just easy, but you don't have to do it that way. But that is how you are able to give virtually. So, you can see your tithe goes to support the Northeastern Conference, which Living Man Church is a church um a part of Northeastern Conference. Um there you'll see the local church local church um spot where you can give to that and that is uh how you can we keep those funds with Living Mana Church so that we can continue to do what God is calling us to do and to be able to do all of the things that we do like um Living Mana Global and many many other things as well.

So if you would like to continue to support or to begin to support Living Mana Church, you definitely can go to adventistgiving.org or and the virtual tithe envelope will show you all the different things that you can give to. The benevolence fund helps us to be able to help people when they're asking for assistance. So you want can give to that and so many other things. Uh you can just go check that out. If you would like to give uh by mailing in your tithes and offering, then please you can do that uh by going to PO Box 428, Owens Crossroads, Alabama 35763 and you can give that way.

Just please put a note in on put a little note in there. Let us know what is for tithe, what is for offering, if it's for some is for the benevolence fund or any other area that you see on the tithe envelope, then please let us know so that we can make sure that your giving or donations is going into the area that you would like to support. And with that said, we just want to again say thank you for all of your prayers and your financial support. It is what helps to keep living managers going and to do what we are doing.

And we are so thankful to each and every one of you for doing what you do uh for this church and continue to just show up, pray, and to financially support this church. Thank you so much for all that you do and have done for three years. We are so thankful um excuse me that God has helped this church to get to where it is now. And we want to continue to grow and to get better and to continue to follow God's leading. So with that, I would just like to ask you to bow your heads with me as we pray.

Heavenly Father, Lord, I just give you praises and thanksgiving for all of your many blessings, Lord, and for what you're able to do in all of our lives, Lord. You are you really are uh a miracle worker, a promisekeeper, a light in the darkness, like my shirt says. You are all of those things, Lord. You are amazing, and we praise you and we thank you, Lord. We praise you even in the darkness. I had a mentor, a prayer mentor who who taught me. She said, "Let's praise God right now." And I'm like, "Right now?"

I'm in the darkness. She's like, "Let's praise God right now." And it's it's like you love that, Lord. You love to see our blind trust because it just empowers you and allows you to continue to work and do work miracles in our lives, Lord. So help everyone who is hearing this prayer to learn how to have blind trust in you and just to believe that you are going to work things out in their situation. And so Lord, I know there's situations that are dealing with marriage. I know there's situations dealing with health, finances, uh children that we're praying for.

Um so many different areas, Lord. And so I lift all of those categories up to you. And I just ask that you will bless each person who is hearing this prayer in their situation. Lord, you know what the situation is and we just ask that you will pour out a blessing to them. Lord, I pray for Pastor Meyers as we are in we are entering into this time now where he is soon to speak and to give us the message that you have given him to give to all of us. We just ask that your Holy Spirit will be with him in every word um and every phrase and that it will hit us in a way that we will understand and we will connect with you in a deeper way.

Lord, we ask all these prayers in Jesus name. Dads, they guide us with strength. They love us with patience and they sacrifice for us without hesitation. So today, God, we pray for the expectant dads as they prepare for the miracle of fatherhood. And for the young fathers as they embark on the journey of a lifetime. Lord, grant them perspective, grace, and legacy. For the stepfathers who are becoming something more than they ever thought possible. and for the mentored dads who nurture the hearts of those who aren't their own.

Lord, grant them perseverance, love, and vision. For the single fathers who didn't expect it to turn out this way, and for grandfathers whose legacy extends across the generations. Lord, grant them understanding, diligence, and mercy. For dads who have lost children and who carry the unbearable weight of grief. And for dads of children with exceptional needs who require more than we'll ever know. Please grant them patience, courage, and kindness. Walk with every dad as they navigate life's challenges.

When the path seems too long, and when the journey seems impossible, strengthen the weary, awaken the uninvolved, and remind them all that their presence matters more than their perfection. May they know how deeply loved they really are, not only by us, but ultimately by you. Happy Father's Day. I'll never be more loved than I am right now. Wasn't holding you up. So there is nothing I can do to let you down. It doesn't take a trophy to make you proud. I'll never be more love than I am right now.

Oh, going through a storm, but I won't go down. I hear your voice carried in the rhythm of the wind to call me out. You would cross an ocean so I wouldn't drown. You've never been closer than you are right Gyra. Gyra, you are enough. Oh, enough. And I will be content. In every circumstance, you are gyra. You are enough. I don't want to forget how I feel right now on the mountain top. I can see so clear what it's all about. So stay by my side when the sun goes down. my own. Don't want to forget how I feel Gyra content in every circumstance.

You are enough. I'm already love. I'm already chosen. I know who I am. I know what you spoken. I'm already loved more than I could imagine. And that is enough. I'm already chosen. I know who I am. Yeah. I know what you love more than I could [Applause] That is enough. What is this truth says is better than anything. That is enough. I don't need money or material things. That is enough. That is enough. Lord, you are enough. You are enough. enough. You are enough to hold. You are enough. content in every circumstance that you are a child.

You are enough. Here at Living Mana, we bear each other's burdens. When you need support or prayer, when you're feeling discouraged or alone or anxious, you don't have to face life struggles alone. Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in our time of need. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. Amen. Greetings saints of the most high God and welcome LMOC family and friends. Want to welcome you to another edition of living manners prayer and praise time.

As always I am here with my lovely bride Amra and saints. We just want to say we do not consider it a light thing at all that we get the opportunity to serve you in this amazing movement in this amazing capacity. Greetings to everybody that's watching today. So wonderful to see so many people in the house of God today. Wow. Earlier there were over 500 people only in Sabbath school and we really want to zero in in on that and focus on that. I thank God for our pastor and first lady and for the amazing word of God that's coming forth right now.

But we thank God also for all of you because we are the body of Christ. We are family. We are one. And praise God for the wonderful things that he's doing. Look, want to send some shout outs here. Um especially to uh Sister Kayla and uh I mean um Sister Kayla, you are now a an official living man of prayer warrior, but you were dealing with some warfare this morning on your way to church and the enemy is trying to keep you from getting there, but you got there and shared the word of God. And so we really are thanking God for you.

And you know what? Um Jerry and and Jerry and Michaela are now official living man of prayer uh uh uh members. Uh Jerry is a prayer warrior. We'll talk about that in a second. But you know there's an interesting connection between Jerry and Michaela. So Michaela is a student with Jerry and when Michaela did that powerful Bible study on power Wednesday, she was uh sharing uh a passage of scripture and she approached it from the eight principles that Jerry had shared with her and she actually mentioned several times how Miss Jerry had told them, you know, how to use the those eight principles and approaching the word of God.

And Michaela, I want to tell you, you were strong. That was amazing. It was. and she was so natural and a matter of fact with it and just flowed so genuinely. We loved it. We love you. We're blessed to have you. We'll continue to pray with you and support you in whatever way we can. I want to tell you though about Miss Jerry. So, we were just doing a a 24-hour prayer and fasting. I can talk about it now. It's over and we'll do it again, but we're going to do it again here shortly. But, uh so, you know, I kind of left my phone on really low.

You know, I had to get some sleep because I had to work the next day. And I'm going to tell you, the living man of prayer team, these warriors and warettes were up all night long manning that that phone line and they stayed on there praying and fast. So, I'm sleeping and I wake up in the middle of the night and I hear a voice. Who is it? It's Jerry at like what 3:00 in the morning? Three. It was 3:06. As a matter of fact, I heard Jerry. I heard Sister Jackie, of course. I heard Joanne. I heard brother Jesse.

I said, "These people are taking this thing serious." And so you can know you God has brought some amazing prayer warriors here. And there were others on the call, by the way. I mean, 24 hours they were on that thing. You know, I stayed on there 24 hours, but I sort of, you know, Brother Terry had to doze off a little bit, but praise God. Well, Jerry's always been a part of the family, but welcome officially. You're official. So, yes, you are. You are. And to to all the rest of you, I want to shout out every everybody that the entire Living Man of Praise team have been doing some wonderful stuff.

Sister Diana shared some good stuff with us yesterday. Such a blessing. We enjoyed your ministry the other night. It was so great. Ross and Gina, just everybody, Brother Elco, I mean, just on and on and on. So beautiful. Sister Valerie. Oh, just wanted to just take a moment and ask everybody, let us say special prayers for our beloved sister Valerie. Uh she is an incredible soldier and she's been struggling with some health issues, but let me tell you something. If Val can hold her finger up, if she can open her eyes, she's going to get on there and she's going to be there available and praying and ministering for somebody.

So, Sister Val, we love you. We're going to keep you in prayer and just hold on and keep on pressing on. Amen. Amen. And if people don't understand what Terry was talking about with the 24hour prayer and fasting, that is for um the new power line that just started a couple weeks ago. We haven't had our official launch yet, but this will be our third week coming up on Wednesday. So, tune in, share with your friends. Um so, anybody can can uh ask for prayer and we will do our best pray live on Wednesdays.

Yeah. I'm sorry. You know, sometimes I guess I just assume everybody knows what I'm talking about without giving all the details, but that's why I'm here. Yeah, that's exactly why you're here, my dear. And so, thank you. Um, so yeah, saints, uh, we we we know that many of the people uh that we're praying for. We don't know what's going to come our way. We don't know who's going to get on that line. We don't know what they're going through, what they're experiencing in their lives. But I do know that when I was in prison, Pastor Natante didn't even know this.

I only wrote this down and sent it home to my mom when God showed me that I would be an intercessor. I thought I was going to be doing something else, but the Lord uh he has his plans and he worked it out. And um you know uh the Lord gave me that passage from 2 Timothy chapter 2:24-26 says the servant of the Lord uh must be gentle unto all men apt to teach patient instructing those who oppose themselves that per venture God might grant them repentance to recovering of themselves from the from the from the enemy who have taken them captive at his own will.

And so, um, many of the people that we're praying for, they're held in bondage and they're experiencing some things that the enemy's let loose in their lives even though he is a defeated foe until they know that, until they are educated in the word of God and the truth of God and anointed and filled with the Holy Ghost and power, then they won't be able to recover themselves because they can't stand up and resist him with the truth until they've learned to submit to God. And so, as we're praying for people, we're taking this very serious.

We know that God takes it serious and so we want to be used by him in a special way. We don't want to just have a gospel that's in word only, but in demonstration of the Holy Ghost in power. And so we're giving ourselves to God that he would use us. And he's been doing some amazing, amazing stuff, answering prayers. And we just want to encourage you if your season doesn't seem to have come around yet, hold on, saints. Your day is coming. Hold on. Answer is on the way. Amen. Amen. Amen. praise reports, my love.

Okay. You ready for me now? Yes, ma'am. All right. So, before I get into the praise reports, just a reminder, if you have a prayer request, a praise report, you would join like to join the prayer team or a special ops prayer team under the prayer team umbrella, please send an email to praymanana.urch. If you would like to uh request a special ops team for yourself or a loved one, please send an email to spec ops, that's sops at livingmana.urch. If you would like to join the women's ministry on mighty networks, please send an email to women livinga.urch.

And finally, if you would like to join the men's ministry, please send an email to sevenloaves. That's s eve ven l o a vegan manana.urch. Amen. Amen. All right. I I I also want to just just, you know, first lady talked about pivoting. When you're walking with God, you got to be able to pivot. And so, and that just just jumped in my heart really that our tech team have done some serious pivoting this morning. Oh, yes. Shout out to Sister Patrice. Absolutely. Brother Colin, brother Gavin, and definitely Brother Joshua, son of of Ivor.

Y'all y'all y'all y'all I'm going to tell you something. The enemy was after us this morning with this thing. And y'all put it together, and it just a it just happened so smoothly. Smooth transition. We thank God for y'all. We love y'all and we're praying for you. We do not take lightly what you do behind the scenes just because you're not up here front and we see and hear you. Listen, we wouldn't be here either if it wasn't for you doing what you do. So, praise God for you. Big shout out for them.

But if you're in the chat, I want you to just put praise God for the tech team in the chat today and let them know you love them that we're praying for them. All right. Amen. Amen. All right. Starting us out is a praise report from actually two praise reports from Shaunene Wright. Number one, praise God and thank you for your prayers. Isaac had an impacted bell on one side. Even though he moves them regularly, they removed everything. He is feeling much better. I am so grateful for your prayers.

Thank God it wasn't a critical situation. Amen. And her second praise report is Nicole was released from the hospital this afternoon. She's home resting. She has to wear a monitor to determine her stroke risk. On lots of meds. Thank you all for your prayers. And then another update on Nicole. Praising God for bringing Nicole through her healing from a TIA, which is a mini stroke at such a young age. Praise God. She is feeling better and healing. Praise God her face is back to normal. Praise God for the medical staff.

Praise God for all the prayers of my brothers and sisters. Amen. Amen. From Angela Perry. Hi family just got a delivery. A local electric company sent me a free humidifier. I qualified for it due to low income and disability. Maybe it will help with seasonal asthma symptoms. Yay. Amen. Angela from Annette Rivas. Glory. Glory, glory to God, the creator of the heavens and earth. Yes. Hello family. I have a praise report. I had court today again and the plaintiff who is a lawyer did not show up. The court dismissed this case without prejudice.

Which means the plaintiff can still come back and sue and reopen the case. But I trust that the Lord has touched the heart of this lawyer not to pursue this case any further. Thank you so much for lifting me up in prayer and may God continue to have control over the situation. Love you all and thanks again for the prayers. Amen. Amen. All right, this one's from Artell Peters. Now, Artell has sent us on quite the harrowing journey through the DMV. So, let's see what Artell has to say today. Yeah.

um preparation day praise report. So this came in yesterday. Praise God. By submitting my plans to God and asking if it is your will, I will be granted this day that the Lord has made the privilege to drive a registered vehicle in the state of G Georgia. thereby giving me the ability to spread the gospel to all where God's Holy Spirit directs this earthly vehicle to go therefore and make disciples of all nations to the glory of God was careful that I would not be found working out my own plans to the disregard of God's plans.

Hallelujah and me and amen. Thank you Lord. Amen. Congratulations Artell. Amen. Congratulations. Praise God. from Joanne Steven. Now, this one, I can just visualize her in this praise report, her voice and everything. Oh, yeah. It's very animated and I love it so much. All right. Starts out, uhhuh. God did it again. Why won't Why won't I love a being like this? I recently started working three days a week for three hours a day. So obviously the pay is very small. When I received my pay, I said, "Lord, how am I going to make this work?"

I realized that I won't be able to pay bills, travel to work, and buy groceries with a small sum. So I said, "Lord, you're going to have to do something." I put aside my tithe. That was all I spare. No money for offering, no groceries. Well, today one of my and Val's friends called and told me to look out for her husband and son. They came and took me to the supermarket and stocked up my grocery cupboards. Of course, I was very ladylike and sedate about it, all polite and thankful in their presence.

But I did bed cartwheels after they left of joy and gratitude. I praise God them, their children, their dogs, and even their shadows. Ain't God grand? He rolled up his sleeves and went to work again for his daughter. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus. Praise God. Come on, somebody. Praise God. Yes. Yes. Yes. What a mighty God we serve. Yes. And finally from our newest member of Living Mana online church, Jerry Harvey Leonard. We had so many issues today with our LMOC kids platform.

So we prayed. The horrible echo only left when the kids participated in Scripture Keepers and our version of Afterglow. It was the children who repeated the fact that the gifts and talents that God gave were used to sin and that we are still doing that today. Exodus 32. The children also noticed that God honored their prayer. The echoes disappeared during these times that the word of God was recited and discussed. Praise him. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, praise God. Thank you all saints for sharing your praise reports.

Continue to send in your praise reports. Yes, please do. So we can share them. Uh sometimes we get so many that Sister Joanne decides that it's okay. It's time to have uh a prayer service that's just on just praise and praise reports. So we like doing that. That's a that's a blessing. And we anticipate that as we continue to draw near and closer to the coming of the Lord and God's people are preparing themselves, we anticipate and we expect that our God is going to be doing great and incredible things on our behalf.

And so we ain't going to have a room or time to tell it all. So y'all got to make it to glory. We got to get to glory together, y'all. So we can spend forever telling these wonderful stories and rejoicing over all the goodness of God. when we get there and find out some of the things that he's done that we didn't even know about. My my come on somebody and sister Ayana I see you there. You know I'm not going to overlook you war yet mighty and we thank God for you and everyone else I just want to tell you we see your prayer requests and we're gathering them in the chat.

Uh today though I you know what for intercessory prayer I just want to pray a general prayer today for everyone. Uh there was a few prayer requests. I did want to Sharon Fay. We are praying for uh uh Jacqueline Clay uh who lost her husband last year and lost her job. And we're also going to pray for uh I believe it's Ja Brown who's having trouble walking. We will be lifting her up. And we're going to pray for our beloved sister um uh Deborah Howard. She's from the Shiloh SDA church in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Want to pray for her. She had a stroke three weeks ago. want to continue to lift him up. And Sister Teresa Hatton, we'll be praying for you and mental health, and we'll be praying for all those bondages and demonic attacks from DJ. I know I'm a living witness. Me and DJ have similar past. And I know that God can uh heal, touch, save, and deliver. He can transform, pick you up, and turn you around. I was thinking today when we're talking about our pastor and this unique gift that he has. And you know, I sat in prison for 25 years.

And I sat there a lot of times I would I I watched this brother on DVDs and videos that the the Seventh Day Adventist sponsors would bring in and and never imagined one day that I'd walk out and meet this brother face to face and I did meet him. And so you can can you imagine how it would feel that I'd meet sit there and then the Lord says, "I want you to stay right here. I want you to sit here. I want you to listen. I want you to learn and learn what I have for you." And that's when God really began to show me that this unique gift this brother has is to show us who we are and what's available to us.

And so saints, that's what our prayer is going to be about today is for us that God equip us for this hour. Strengthen us for this hour. Build us up for this hour. No matter what we're going through, all of our storms, all of our trials, all of our struggles, all of our sicknesses and challenges and heartbreaks and and and just, you know, breakups and breakdowns, all of that stuff that's going on in our lives. Our God is greater and he still in spite of that he's still got a calling for us. We are the children of God.

We are for signs and for seasons today for to this world that is uh uh headed towards destruction. And so I want to pray today that this message and this word that that pastor and first lady have been sending forth this Daniel message this 1844 message this beautiful vision of God that God has revealed in the book of Daniel. four separate uh versions of the same vision and how God is trying to show us all throughout the Bible. I'm trying to say something to you and it is all about Jesus. And I want to thank God for being so good to us today.

Join me in prayer right now, saints, as we just go to the throne of grace with our hearts humbled and broken before God. And so, Father, we thank you, Lord, for bringing us to this hour. You have called us just like Esther for such a time as this. And we are coming to the king, Lord. We're coming to the throne of grace in order that we might obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And Lord, we thank you, Lord. Lord, we give you glory. We give you the honor and the we give you the praise, Lord.

Forgive us, Lord, for our sins that we've committed against you in word, thought, and deed or things that we should have done and didn't do. Lord, we have uh uh we know that we have sinned and we have uh uh uh uh forgotten, Lord God, our first love, which is you, Lord Jesus. But thank you for being so faithful. Thank you for being so good and so strong. Thank you that you are greater. You said in your word that them that know their God shall be strong and do exploits. Meaning that we can give praise unto you in the midst of our storms and our trials.

We can give praise to you, Lord God, when sickness and disease strikes our body and when debt and challenges and bills that need to be paid, Lord, that we become a candidate that we would for for a blessing and for miracles as we wait for you to show up on our behalf and show up and show out, Lord God, in ways that we never imagined or thought. Lord, for everyone within the sound of our voice today, we pray someone watching today in desperation. Someone came to Living Mana hungering Lord God for the bread of life.

Someone came from to Living Mana Lord looking for a connection. Someone came to Living Mana in with their mind in turmoil with questions and reasoning and looking for answer. Someone is looking want to know is this Bible really true? Is there really hope for a lost soul? Is this word of God really alive and quick? Does the God of the Bible really know the end from the beginning? Does he really know the ending before the beginning begins? If I can trust him with these prophetic words coming to pass just as he declared it thousands of years ago, Lord, then I can trust him with my today.

I can trust him with my tomorrow. I can trust him with my marriage. I can trust him with my job. I can trust him in my home, in my health, Lord, in my mind, Lord, in my heart, oh God. I can trust him as I pray for my children. I can trust him as I pray for those in prison who need to be set free. Lord, before they're ever set free, God, I know that I can trust him in my churches, in my communities, in my neighborhoods. I can trust him in the ministry. I can trust him, Lord God, when I can't seem to stop being bitter.

When I can't seem to forgive and let go of hurt and hang-ups of the past, when I just can't seem to make it. Thank you, God, that I can trust you. that there is still something in this world that we can trust in and rely on and that is the word of the living God. Thank you Lord Jesus for giving it all for us. Thank you Lord. And it's this on this Sabbath day Lord as a sign that between us and you that you are the Lord our God that sanctifies us as a sign that you have created us again a new that you've made us again another vessel Lord as seems pleasing unto you.

as a sign unto you. We honor you and we worship you today and we enter into your rest believing you Jehovah Gyra have made these works finished from before the foundation of the world. You have provided for everything we will ever need. Thank you, God, that your grace is greater than all of our sins. Your grace is greater, God, than all of our sicknesses and disease. Your grace is greater than the enemy and the enemy out there. We thank you, Father, for being so good. And Lord, we thank you that once again, more and more you're going to be revealing light and shining light upon your word.

We thank you for the word that we are about to receive. Lord, we humble our hearts before you to receive it today. God, enlighten our hearts, enlighten our minds in Jesus name. God, soften our hearts, Lord. Fill us with love overflowing, oh God, in Jesus name. in Jesus name as we hear your word today father and father some of us have struggled with something in our lives whether it be a character defect a change that we see needs to be made Lord God in Jesus name we exalt you and magnify you today above that thing because we know you are able and we give you the glory the honor and the pay praise today and someone who's watching who may be even in pain right now Lord someone watching and praying and saying God are you thinking of Lord, are you thinking about my struggle, my specific trial, my unique thing that I'm going through that nobody else understands?

Show them, Lord God, that just as you said, Lord, their brothers and sisters throughout the whole world are suffering these same temptations and trials. Set that one free that's watching, that tuned into living mana today, Lord. Show them it wasn't a coincidence. Show them sitting right there in their living room, Lord God, or right there in their car, Lord God, or wherever they may be listening that they are on your mind, Lord, and you're more than able to heal, touch, save, and deliver. And for that, we give you glory, honor, and praise in the mighty and majestic name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, your son.

Amen. Amen. We worship you, Jesus, God of Abraham. You're the God of covenant, the faithful promises. Time and time again, you have proven. You do just what you said. Though the storms may come and the winds may blow, I'll remain steadfast. And let my heart learn. When you speak a word, it will come to pass. Great is your faithfulness to me. Great is your me. From the rising sun to the setting same, I will praise your name. me. Oh, great is your Yeah. Gone from age to age. Though the earth may pass away, your word remains the same.

Yeah. Your history can prove. There's nothing you can't do. You're faithful and true. Though the storms may come and the winds may blow, I'll remain steadfast. and let my heart learn. When you speak a word, it will come to pass. And great, faithfulness to me. Oh, great is your same, I will praise your name. Sing great, great is your Oh, we know that you're so good, God. We believe you, Lord. Yeah. It never runs out. Never runs out. It never runs out. Never runs out. It never runs out. It never runs out.

Never runs out. Cuz I put my faith in Jesus, my anchor to the ground. my hope and firm found. He'll never let me down. I put my faith in Jesus. My anchor to the ground. My hope and firm found. He'll never let cuz I put my faith in Jesus. My anesthet never he'll Never let he'll never let me down. Sing great, great is your me. Great is your faithfulness. From the rising sun, rising sun to the set, I will praise your name. From the rising sun to the set, I will praise your name. Oh, great is your faithfulness to me.

You're so great, God. You're so great. Great is your faithfulness. Yes, it is Lord. Amen. Amen. Uh welcome everyone to Living Mana online church. uh we are preparing to enter into uh the message for this morning. But before we do, I just want to let you know that uh we are currently experiencing storm weather here in Huntsville, Alabama. And uh you all know what that means. There is a possibility that our power might go out. So, just in case we uh you you see uh the stream go blank, you will know what's going on.

So, we're hoping and we're praying that uh um the storm will not affect our power. Um but again, if you do, if you see the power go out, you will know what happened. You will not be like, "What's going on?" All right, with that said, um let's go ahead everyone. Let's uh begin with prayer and we are going to jump right into the message. So heavenly father we're asking in a special way Lord that you would please speak uh to your people today Lord you have prepared a word for us Lord may we hear and may we understand as our prayer in Jesus name.

Amen. So again, uh, church family, I'm going to go ahead, uh, church family and visitors, I'm going to go ahead and ask you to hit that like button and also share this link. Uh, let people know that, um, that a message is beginning that you believe that they need to hear. Um, we're going to go ahead, guys, and and go to the screen. And today we're talking about the story of Nehemiah. The story of Nehemiah. Um 52 days the palace of Shushan part two part two this is a continuation of last week's message and uh we are again going to begin with Daniel chapter 8 verse 1 and 2.

In Daniel chapter 8 verse 1 and 2, the Bible says, "In the third year of the reign of King Belshazar, a vision appeared unto me, even unto me Daniel after that which appeared unto me at the first. And I saw in a vision, and it came to pass when I saw that I was at Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elum, and I saw in a vision, and I was by the river Uli." Now we are not going to read the entire vision today. I simply want to point out Daniel is about to receive the vision concerning the ram, the hegoat and then the question of this little horn uh and this time period of the 2300 days.

Uh he is about to receive this vision. But I but what I want us to focus on today is the fact that God brings him uh whether in vision or in person, we do not know. But he brings him into the palace of Shushan, which is highly significant for this prophecy he's about to receive. We learned from our message last week that the name Shushan or the place Shushan is mentioned 21 times in the Bible. One time is found here in Daniel chapter 8. The other 19 times are found in the book of Esther. And what we learned last week was that in the story of Esther, you have the story of King Ahazerus in his palace seated on his throne.

And the events that take place in that palace, we learned have a direct bearing on this prophecy of the cleansing of the sanctuary. Um, we saw that there was a king. We saw that this woman named Esther goes in before the king in his inner chambers to intercede on behalf of her people. We see that there is a death decree that has been issued. We see that there are books that are opened in which the king sees the good deeds of one by the name of Mori, reverses judgment on the people of Israel. Um and even uh uh the story even contains lots being cast uh after which judgment is brought back upon the head of the one who instigated the destruction of Israel.

And so we learned uh in that in that very meaty sermon from last week that uh the the the mention of Shushan in Daniel 8 signifies that the 2300 day prophecy is in fact about judgment. And there is something very specific about this story of Esther which I do not want to point out yet but I will bring this point back later on in the sermon. Esther the reason uh the palace of Shushan is mentioned in this prophecy is to bring our minds to the story of Esther. So that is what we did last week. 19 times that shushan is mentioned.

It brings the mind back to the story of Esther or brings the mind to the story of Esther. The other time, so remember I said 21 times, one time is in the book of Daniel, 19 times is in the book of Esther. The other time it is mentioned is in the story of Nehemiah. Let's go back to the screen and please note with me Nehemiah chapter 1 verse one and two. Nehemiah chapter 1 verse one and two. The Bible says the words of Nehemiah the son of Hakalia. And it came to pass in the month of Shisloo in the 20th year as I was in Shushan the palace that Hani one of my brethren came.

he and certain men of Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped, which were left of the captivity, concerning Jerusalem. And they said unto me, "The remnant that are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach. The wall also of Jerusalem is broken down, and the gates thereof are burnt with fire." Verse four. And it came to pass when I heard these words that I sat down and wept and mourned certain days and fasted and prayed before the God of heaven.

And I beseech thee and I said bes I beseech thee, oh Lord God, that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that loveth him and observeth his commandments. Let thine ear now be attentive and thine eyes open that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant which I pray before thee now day and night for the children of Israel thy servants and confess the sins of the children of Israel which we have sinned against thee both I and my father's house have sinned. I want you to note the parallel between Nehemiah's prayer and Daniel's prayer.

Remember in Daniel chapter 9, Daniel is also weeping and fasting and praying a prayer of forgiveness. But in Nehemiah's context, in the context of Nehemiah, he is weeping and praying. Not like Daniel who did not understand, hey, when is the sanctuary going to be built? When is the city going to be restored? Nehemiah is weeping and praying because that which was to be done was laying in ruins. The work that had been started had not yet been completed. Put a one in the chat if you're following me so far.

Remember now that in the story in the prophecy of Daniel the name or the palace Shushan is mentioned. In all of the scriptures there are two stories that occur with Sushan as the basis of the story. Three. The first is Daniel. The other two are Nehemiah and Esther. We've already seen that the story of Esther points to something very specific having to do with the judgment. What about the story of Nehemiah? In the story of Nehemiah, we see that the work that should have been completed is not yet complete.

Let's go back and I want you to note the parallel here to the book of Daniel 8:9 and 10. Daniel 8:9 and 10 where the Bible says, "Out of one of them came forth a little horn which waxed exceeding great toward the south and toward the east and toward the pleasant land. And it the little horn waxed great even to the host of heaven. And it cast some of the host of the stars to the ground and stamped upon them. Notice this. Yay, he magnified himself even to the prince of the host. And by him the daily was sacrifice was taken away, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down.

Then I heard one saint and another saint said unto that certain saint which speak, how long shall be the vision concerning the daily sacrifice and the transgression of desolation to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trotten underfoot? And he said unto me, unto 2,300 days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. We understand according to Bible prophecy that the ending of the 2300 days was 1844 from the year 457 BC when the decree is given to start the 2300 day prophecy. You add 2300 years to 457 BC and you come to the year 1844.

We've already seen that the story of Esther shows us crucial information about what we could expect beginning in the year 1844. Well, I'm going to suggest to you that the story of Nehemiah does the same thing. Because remember Nehemiah is in the palace of Shushan and he is weeping that the work is not finished. He is weeping because Jerusalem is still laying in ruins when it should be built when it should be completed. Please note again with me in the book of Nehemiah chapter 2 verse4 the king that Nehemiah stands before now wonders why Nehemiah is distressed.

The Bible says then the king said unto me for what do what dust thou make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven, and I said unto the king, "If it pleased the king, and if thy servant has found favor in thy sight, that thou would ascend me unto Judah, unto the city of my father's separ that I may build it." that I may build it. So I want you to note now that the emphasis in the book of Nehemiah is going to be on the work that Nehemiah has to do. Whereas the emphasis in the book of Esther had to deal with the faith of the people and the trust of the people and the trust of of of Esther as she goes in before the king to reverse things that have been done unfairly and unjustly.

Note the two differences in the stories. The story of Ne of Esther versus the story of Nehemiah. Nehemiah's work is to build that which has not yet been completed. Let's go back to Daniel chapter 9. Notice with me verse 25. Daniel chapter 9 25. The Bible says, "Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the prince shall be seven weeks and three score in two weeks." Now please note this. The street shall be built again and the wall even in troubles times.

Even in troublesous times. Nehemiah's work specifically revolved not so much around the rebuilding of the city or the rebuilding of the temple because the previous decrees that had been issued focused on the city and the temple. The temple first and then the city. But when Nehemiah comes along, his work was to build the streets and the temple and the wall. The streets and the wall. In fact, in Nehemiah 4:1, note with me. But it came to pass that when Sand Ballad heard that we builded the wall, he was wroth and took great indignation and mocked the Jews.

So let's pause for a second. I know I've covered a lot, but I want to make sure that you all are following. In the story of Nehemiah, the the the theme of the story of Nehemiah was the completing of the wall. The streets and the wall according to Daniel chapter nine, which tells us the streets and the walls would be built even in troubles times. And we're going to see that very thing happening in the book of Nehemiah as they had to persevere through troubles times. They had to persevere through persecution to complete the work that had been begun that had begun under the other decrees.

If you're with me so far, please go ahead and put a one in the chat. What I want you to note as we go back to the screen, let me read Nehemiah chapter 41 again. But it came to pass that when Sam Ballot heard that we builded the wall, he was wroth and took great indignation and mocked the Jews. Why that is so similar to Revelation 12:1 17 which tells us and the dragon was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed which keep which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.

So here's what I want you to understand brothers and sisters. The devil is not only angry about the temple being restored. Not only does he not want the city to be restored, but he didn't want the final work of the streets and the walls to be restored. Now, I need y'all to catch the significance of this because what you will see in the parallel is that there is still a work to be done. Praise God for our pioneers who laid the foundation and built the city and built the temple and built the truths around those things which we now hold as biblical truth.

Amen to that. However, according to the parallel, there is still a work to be done. And this again ties right back into why Daniel is taken to the palace of Shushan to receive this vision that we understand as a 2300 day prophecy. Please note with me. Note with me Nehemiah 4:7. Nehemiah 4:7. Note what the text says. Nehemiah chapter 4, beginning with verse 5. Nehemiah is praying as a result of the attack upon God's people as they are seeking to build the wall. He says, "Cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out from before thee, for they have provoked thee to anger before the builders.

So built we the wall, and all the wall was joined together unto the half thereof, for the people had a mind to work." Yeah. Yeah. Uh like Patty G says, I want y'all to put thank you to the pioneers. Thank you to the pioneers for the work that they did in building the wall. and this amazing spiritual city after coming out of Babylon. But notice what the text goes on to say, verse 7. But it came to pass that when Sandbalot and Tobaya and the Arabians and the Ammonites and the Ashites heard that the walls of Jerusalem were made up and listen to this now, that the breaches began to be stopped.

Then they were very wroth. So let's just pause for a second. Let me go back a little bit and I want you to note I want you to note when Sand Ballad heard that we builded the wall, they were wroth. Watch this now. But when they heard that the breaches began to be stopped, then they were not just wroth but very wroth. Might might this very wrothness give us a clue into how the devil may be responding today to what that parallel work should be. Whatever that parallel work is where the where the breaches begin to be stopped.

Might it be that the devil is he may be angry with the restoration of the temple and the truths of the sanctuary? He may be angry with the restoration o of the city, the place where people know to come if they want truth. But he gets very angry when he sees the breaches begin to be stopped. Now you know what breaches are. Let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen. So the text says the text says that the breaches began to be stopped. Then they were very wroth and conspired all of them together to come to fight against Jerusalem and to hinder it to hinder the breaches being stopped up.

Which lets us understand now. Oh, I I see the devil wants breaches. You see, breaches would represent holes or gaps in the wall. If there are gaps in the wall, those are avenues for the enemy to come in. Now, this is very significant, beloved, because in Isaiah 58:12, we are told that they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places. Thou shalt raise up the foundation of many generations, and thou shalt be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in. Wow. Wow.

The Bible tells us that God's people, particularly at the end of time, will be called the repairers of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in. Now, let me let me break this down for you because if I were to ask you, what is a path? How what would you answer? What is a path? What is a path? So that would be the old English way of saying what would we call a path today. So think about it. I'm giving you directions. I'm not going to say, hey, you know, you're going to make a left on this path and then you're going to go down that path and make a right on the path that intersects.

No, a path is a road. Very good, Terry. A path is a road. It's a street. Thou also be called the repairers of the streets. I'm sorry, the restorer of the streets and the repairer of the breaches. Where are breaches found? They are found in the walls. As Daniel 9:26 points out, the street and the walls shall be built again in troubles times. Could it be? Could it be that in the story of Nehemiah, we find a parallel in Nehemiah, just as we found a parallel in the book of Esther, we find a parallel in the book of Nehemiah that there is yet a work to be done during the investigative judgment that will involve repairing the path, the street, the way and bre and and and stopping the breaches in the walls.

And that while this work is happening, there will be an enemy seeking to attack. Are y'all are y'all following? Seeking to attack the people whose mission it is to to fill the breaches, repair the breaches, and repair the streets. Could it be that this work will be happening in troublesous times? Why is Daniel taken to the palace of setup for receiving the 2300 day prophecy? I want you to note with me beloved in Jeremiah chapter 6 verse 16 the Bible says thus sayith the Lord stand ye ye in the ways and see and ask for the old paths where is the good way and walk therein and you shall find you shall find what shall you find you shall find rest for your souls those who are preparing listen to me y'all those who are preparing the streets are doing so to lead people to find rest for their souls.

Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Did Jesus say, "I am the way, the truth, and the life?" Did Jesus say, "Come unto me all you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest?" Did Jesus promise that he would give us a new nature and a new heart so that we would so that the law of God would be written on our hearts. Beloved, listen to me. There's a reason Shushan where the two stories of the Bible that revolve around the palace of Shushan is the story of Esther and the other the story of Nehemiah.

Listen to me y'all. It revolves around the rebuilding of the street that is leading people to the true rest which is in Christ which is a rest by keeping something very special that Christ gave to us as a part of the new covenant. But let's hold our thought there and let's just go to the next text because we're going to come back to this. The Bible says in Isaiah 26:1, "In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah. We have a strong city. Salvation will God appoint for walls and ball works.

Open ye the gates that the righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in. Listen to me. The gaps in the wall. The gaps in the wall would allow the wicked to come in. The righteous enter in not through the gaps but through the gate. Did y'all catch that? The wicked will want to enter in, but they will want to do so by climbing walls, by going through gaps. They want the reward, but they don't want what's required to get into reward. They don't want to enter in through the gates. What does Revelation 22 20 uh 2 tell us about the gates?

Doesn't Revelation 22 say something about those who enter in through the gates? Are those that do something? Blessed are they that do his commandments that they may have right to the city. Right to the city. So watch this you guys. The the the repairing of the wall makes it so that enemies cannot get in. Those who don't belong there do not get in. Don't cheat their way in. You can only enter in through the gates. Are y'all with me? Yes. Yes. Yes. Follow. Follow. Follow follow along. So, so Isaiah 58 then when it talks about those who do certain things will be called the restorer of past dwelling and the repairer of the breach.

I need you to understand the significance of Isaiah 58 and calling the people of God repairs of the breach. Because how does Isaiah 58 begin? How does Isaiah 58 begin? Notice with me Isaiah 58:1 it says, "Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show my people their transgression and the house of Jacob their sins." Now you might not understand the significance of this verse as of yet in relation to Daniel chapter 8 and why God is taking uh uh uh taking Daniel to the palace of Shushan where the story of Nehemiah would unfold.

Listen to me. Where Nehemiah would be the repairer of the breach in that story. where Isaiah 58 is a prophetic reference to what God's people ought to be doing at the end of time. Why does it start, cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet and show my people their sins? Let me tell you why. Because if you go to Leviticus chapter 23:23, the Bible says, "And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall ye have a Sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation.

You shall do no surv work therein, but you shall offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord." Verse 26. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, "Also, on the 10th day of the same month, there shall be a day of atonement. It shall be a holy convocation unto you, and you shall afflict your souls, an offering, an offering made by fire unto the Lord." Please understand that Isaiah 58:1 carries the analogy of the day of atonement in which the trumpets were blown to announce that day. The trumpet was blown on the first day of the feast of trumpets to announce the coming judgment.

Why is Daniel taken to the palace of Shushan where the story of Nehemiah unfolds in which Nehemiah's work is to rebuild is to re is to repair the breaches and make straight the way the path in the city. Why does God want us to think about the story of Nehemiah as it relates to Daniel 8:3 and 14? Why is God taking us to the palace of Susan where one story unfolds through Esther and the other story unfolds through Nehemiah? Both revolving around decrees designed to finish to start and finish the work of the temple and the city.

Why are we being called? Why are we being directed to this idea or concept of repairing breaches and then being told in Isaiah 558 that those who keep the Sabbath will be called the repairers of the breach. Those who are doing a very special work which we will see earlier in the chapter in Isaiah 58. You will be called the repairer of the breach. Why does that same chapter begin with cry aloud show my people their sin? Why does that chapter begin with day of atonement analogy where all the people of God were to be brought together and were to look at their sins?

Lift up your voice like a trumpet. Why is God showing Daniel the palace of Shushan in preparation for us to understand the 2300 day prophecy? Come on y'all. Let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. Nehemiah chapter 4:9. So the Bible says, "Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto God and set a watch against them day and night uh because of them. And Judah said, the strength of the bearers of of burdens is decayed and there is much rubbish so that we are not able to build the wall." And our adversary said, "They shall not know neither see till we come in the midst of them and slay them and cause the work to cease."

I need y'all to understand, beloved, that in this investigative judgment time period, the devil will ultimately seek to slay us and cause the work to cease. But let's keep reading. Let's keep going. Verse 12. And it came to pass, it came to pass that when the Jews which did dwell which dwelt by them came and said unto us 10 times from all places whence you shall return unto us that they will be upon you. Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall and on the higher places I even set the people after their families with their swords, their spears and their bows.

Mhm. And it came to pass from that time forth that half of my servants wrought in the work, and the other half of them held both the spears, the shield, and the bows, and the harbing and the harbingers harbing, and the rulers were behind all the house of Judah. Then they which build on the wall, and they that bear the burden, with those that laid it, everyone with with one of his hands wrought in the work, and with the other hand held a weapon. Do y'all see this? They had two things they had to do.

One was to build and the other to defend. One was to build and the other to defend. Beloved, my suggest to you that God's people at the end of time have a work to do. On the one hand, we must build and continue to build because we got a work that we've got to complete. But on the other hand, we have to defend. Listen to me. We don't have time to just defend. Otherwise, we won't build. And we don't have time to just build otherwise we won't defend. There is an enemy out. There's an enemy seeking to destroy this work seeking to enter into the to the into the into entering through the breaches and to destroy the city and the temple and everything.

So So there is a parallel where God's people at the end of time, this is all revolving around the work of the sanctuary and the city and the wall and the streets. There's it's a whole package. And God is calling his people to not only build with the hammer in one hand, but defend with the sword in the other. And now I need y'all to catch this. I need you to follow this carefully because in Nehemiah 4 18 and 19, the Bible says, "For the builders, everyone with his sword ged by his side, soul builded, and he that sounded the trumpet was by me."

Now watch this. And as I said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, the work is great and large, and we are separated upon the wall, one far from another. All right, y'all. Hopefully, I do not have to preach, preach, preach, preach, preach, preach, preach this thing for y'all to get what I'm about to say. The gaps in the wall necessitated that the people on those walls were separated from one another and the distance was great. Do y'all catch this? The reason that the their goal was to get rid of the breaches so that the people, let me say it this way, as long as there were breaches, they were also separate one from another, far away.

Watch this now. They were all on the walls. They were all on the walls, but they were separated far one from another. The goal was, hey, we got to we got to stop up the gaps so that there are no gaps between us. And now you can understand why the devil, yeah, he's wroth when the temple is built. He's wroth at the sanctuary message, but he's even angrier if he sees the breaches being stopped up. Because as long as he can keep breaches in Israel's wall, there is no defense. Enemies can just come in and rob people and come in and take people out and rob and rob and rob.

Enemies come in through the gaps. And so the devil knows that as long as he can keep gaps, he will even profit off of the gaps. He will highlight the gaps. And beloved, I I believe that it is churches, that we thrive on the gaps. Because if there were no gaps, then we'd all be close to each other. And we realize that we're not each other's enemies. The enemy is out there trying to get into trying to get in through the gaps, trying to get in through the the contentions, trying to get in through the inconsistencies, trying to get in through all these things.

And so, beloved, please understand that the reason that the devil wants to keep gaps in the church, gaps in the wall, is so that the workers on the wall another. Let's go back to the screen and read it again. The work is great and large, and we are separated upon the wall, one far from another. Y'all need to see it with your own eyes. Look at it again. The work is great and large and we are separated upon the wall one far from another and the devil rejoices as long as there are breaches in the wall.

Note what Nehemiah said. In what place therefore you hear the sound of the trumpet, resort ye fither unto us. Our God shall fight for us. So we labored in the work. And half of them held the spear from the rising of the morning till the stars appeared. In other words, Nehemiah was like, at the sound of the trumpet, everybody come together. We got to have a plan. There are going to be breaches, but we we're in the process. We've got to build. So in the meantime, everybody come together. So there was still there was this coming together to defend against a common enemy.

But beloved, let me tell you, the devil is at work. He's at work. He's at work bringing people down from the wall, not to argue with enemies, but to argue amongst ourselves. So what the devil does not want is unity. Because listen to me you guys, when the people are united, it is a sign that the wall is You want to know how the wall is finished? When the people are united. When the people, like how Nehemiah says, I believe it's in Nehemiah 8, that they came together as man. When the people are united, and I'm not talking about unity in error.

That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is when the people understand, hey, these we We are going to have minor differences unless we want to make those minor differences major differences. We can get to the place in our church, we have so many arguments over what what's your position? Is it is it uh uh postfall or prefall with the nature of Christ? Now listen to me y'all. I I I get it. That's a very important subject. It's a very important subject. I believe Christ had the the the the he took upon himself our fallen nature and overcame sin in that fallen human nature.

Not that he sinned, but that he had our nature and he was subject to the same uh same things that we are subject to. He was one of us. But beloved, let me tell you something. I think you can be a genuine a genuine believer in Jesus and differ or not even fully understand. I'm not sure what my position is on the daily. I think it's this, but I'm not sure. I'm not sure what my position is on this thing or that thing. But beloved, listen to me. We create gaps between ourselves which the enemy rejoices over because he knows he knows that if we get that accusatory spirit against each other, we will not come together to fight.

I'mma stay on my side of the wall. You stay on your side of the wall. Listen to this. Listen to this. Are y'all following so far? The devil wants to exploit the breaches. Let me show you something. Let me show you something. Let's We're I want you to see how we're moving methodically through the book of Nehemiah. We started in Nehemiah chapter 1. We're now in Nehemiah chapter 5. Notice this. So Nehemiah in Nehemiah chapter 5, he's now addressing something very specific. Very specific. Um check this out.

Nehemiah 5:9. Also I said, it is not good that you do what you do. Ought you not to walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen of heathen of our enemies? This is Nehemiah now talking to his own people. I likewise of my brethren and my servants might exact of them money and corn. I pray you let us leave off this usery. So what was happening at this time is that there were people in Jerusalem that were suffering poverty because of their fellow brothers. They were exploiting another.

And Nehemiah said this oppression has to stop. stop. We got to loose the bands of wickedness. We got to let the oppressed go free. Watch this, you guys. Because if we go back to Isaiah 58:6, note what the text says. Is not this the fast that I have chosen to to loose the bands of wickedness, undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that you break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house, when thou seize the naked, that thou cover him, and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?

Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine hell shall spring forth speedily, and thy righteousness shall be before thee, and the glory of the Lord shall be thy rear reward. And in the very next few verses, it says, this is where it says, then shall you be called repairers of the breach. Note this. Nehemiah had to address injustices before the wall could be completed because they had to work in unison. Do you understand that God is telling us that Isaiah 58's call to minister to the poor, to the needy, to to to to those who are being oppressed in one way or another, whether inside the church or outside the church.

That this is part of the work that must be accomplished in order to rebuild the walls, to build the walls around the city and to repair the streets. Check this out y'all. I want you to note the parallels between Nehemiah 5 and Isaiah 58. Look on the screen. Look on screen. There were internal injustices in Isaiah 58 falls fast with hidden oppression. You smite, you debate. There was a debt of slavery in Nehemiah chapter 5. Isaiah 58 says, "Heavy burdens to be or condemn the people because of heavy burdens not loosed.

Nehemiah rebukes the nobles. God rebukes hypocritical worshippers." In Isaiah 58, there's a call to restore land and liberty. Isaiah 58, there's a call to loose bands, share bread, and bring poor to bring the poor to to shelter. Nehemiah chapter 5, the result is that there was unity in rebuilding the wall. Isaiah 58, you will be called the repairers of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell. And I want you to understand why is God putting Daniel in the palace of Shashan where the story of Nehemiah unfolds.

Is it not because he wants us to read the book of Nehemiah and also read the book of Esther and see these two storylines have everything to do with the investigative judgment. The Bible says in Psalm 72:4, Psalm 72:4, "He shall judge the poor of the people. He shall save the children of the needy and shall break in pieces the oppressor." Do you want to know what the investigative judgment is about? It is about this verse right here. The investigative judgment is where God breaks in pieces the oppressor, the little horn.

Hmon. Come on y'all. It is where God reverses the judgment of those who are poor and needy, falsely accused. The judgment is about setting wrongs right. And part of that work of setting wrongs right requires God's people to exercise the same type of justice. Which is why go when Jesus comes again, the sheep are on his the goats are on his left hand, the sheep are on his right. And he's he's he's telling them, I judged you based on how you treated the poor. The poor based on how you treated the oppressed.

Part the judgment. Beloved, in the judgment, God is watching to see how you dealt with those who were falsely accused, those who were falsely judged, those who were oppressed, those who were needy. H why are we walking around afraid of the judgment? Psalm 31:9, "Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and the needy." Now, I need y'all to understand why Isaiah 58 is so important to understand in light of the judgment because the chapter begins with a day of atonement analogy.

Call all the people together. Blow a trumpet. Call all the people together and show them their sins. Why? So that they can confess those sins and repent of those sins and do right. What do you mean do right? Restore justice. Restore judgment. Feed the poor. Do those things that that that that minister to the needy, to the least of these, my brethren. That is what the investigative judgment is about. It is restoring judgment to the righteous and and reversing judgment upon the Hmons of the world, upon the oppressors of the world, upon the sand ballots of the world, upon those who are seeking to enter into the into the city through the gaps and destroy.

Come on, check this out. Nehemiah 6:1. And now it came to pass when Sam Ballad and Tobaya and Gisham and the Arabians and the rest of the of our enemies heard that I had builded the wall and that there was no breach left therein, though at the time I had not set up the doors upon the gates. Watch this. That Sam Ballot and Gisham came unto me, saying, "Come, let us meet together in someone one of the villages in the plains of Ono." But they uh but they thought to do me mischief, and I sent messages unto them, saying, I am doing a great work so that I cannot come down.

Why should the work cease whilst I leave it? and come down to you. Yet they sent unto me four times after this sort, and I answered them after the same manner. I need y'all to listen to this. If Esther pointed to faith, then Nehemiah points to work. I was waiting for this moment, y'all. If the story of Esther where the people were helpless and they could do nothing but simply appeal to the king, simply move in faith. Lord, save us. All they could do was move in faith. The story of Esther points to faith.

But Nehemiah, God's people also have a work to do. And whoa, wait a minute. So, are you telling me that God brings Daniel into the palace of Shushan to show him two stories that are related to the judgment? And those two stories can basically be summarized, one in faith and the other in works. That faith without works is dead. that while we are to trust in God and know that he will protect us, we are also to do righteously. We've got a work to finish. We've got a wall to build. We've got the needed to minister.

We've got to bring people into the city and the temple. There is a work to do. And faith without works is dead. And the judgment therefore is based upon faith and works. Oh, that's why he mentioned the palace of Shushan. That's why the passage of sushan is the is the setting for this 2300 day prophecy because God wants us to think Esther in the palace. Nehemiah in the palace. Esther and the people of Israel having to trust and depend upon the king's reversal of the judgment. They were at his mercy.

And Nehemiah, we've got a work to do. We can't just lay down and just wait. No, we got a work to do. We got to have the sword in one hand and the hammer in the other. We have a work to do. There is the judgment is about faith and works. That's why he said, "Daniel, come on. I'm going to take you to the palace of Shushan." Now, it doesn't stop there. doesn't We're almost done, y'all. But it doesn't stop there because I need y'all to see this. I need y'all to see this. Come with me to Nehemiah chapter 7.

Now it came to pass when the wall was built and I had set up the doors and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed. Watch this. Watch this. And my God put into my verse 5. My God put into my heart to gather together the nobles and the rulers and the people that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at the first and found written therein. There are books again. You guys, these are the children of the province that went up out of the captivity of those that had been carried away from Nebuchadnezzar.

The king of Babylon had carried away and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, everyone to his city. We're going to then it goes through all the people that were found. So there's a book there's a book of genealogies. There's a book listen to me y'all. There is a book in the story of Nehemiah just as there is a book in the story of Esther. and both. You guys, when I tell you that we have not believed cunningly devised fables, I mean we have not believe cunningly devised fables. I'm not a magician.

I'm not pulling stuff out of the hat and say, "Look, no, no, this is right here in the Bible. It's right there in the Bible. In Nehemiah, there is a book with a registry. Watch this. Watch what happens. Because there were some people, let's go back to the screen. Nehemiah 7:61. So after it lists all the people that were found, then it says, "And these were they which went up from Tela and Tel Haresa, Cherub, Adam, and Emmer, but they could not show their father's house nor their seed whether they were of Israel."

Haha. These sought their register among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found. Therefore, they were therefore were they as polluted put from the priesthood. Do y'all see this? The ones who could trace their genealogy in the books, those were the ones. Why is Daniel brought into the palace of Shushan to have this vision shown him? This vision of the 2300 days. It has nothing to do with judgment. It has nothing to do with books. It has nothing to do with lots. What? Are you serious?

It has nothing to do with kings on their thrones. It has nothing to do with reviewing one's works. It has nothing to do with reviewing the genealogy. Please listen to me. The Bible says in Daniel 7:9, "I beheld till the ancient of days or till thrones were cast down. And the ancient of days did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like the pure wool. His throne was like the fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire. A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him.

Thousand thousands ministered unto him and 10,000 times 10,000 stood before him. The judgment was set and the books were opened. Watch this. Revelation 20:15. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Let me go back. Let me go back. Let me go back. And whosoever was not found, they were therefore as polluted, put away from the priesthood. Let me go forward. Let me go forward. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.

Beloved, listen to me. This is not by coincidence. Listen y'all, this is living mana. If you're thinking to yourself, yeah, I don't know if the investigative judgment is biblical. I am not sure how to explain. Stop. Just stop. Why is God putting Daniel in the palace Shushan where in both stories of Esther and Nehemiah there are books open and a judgment proceeds both in which result in some people being retained and some people being put away as polluted or some people dying and some people living.

Why is God bringing Daniel into the palace Shushan? Where in one story faith is the main factor and in the other story works is being shown and demonstrated as a sign of faithfulness. But that's not all because if we go to Nehemiah 8:1, please note with me Nehemiah 8:1. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man. See that? See that? As one man, into the street that was before the Watergate, and they spake unto Ezra the scribe, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel.

And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding upon the first day of the seventh month. Let me ask y'all a question. What is the first day of the seventh month? What feast is that? The first day of the seventh month. Why are the people gathering together? What are they about to read? They are about to read the law. Why does God put Daniel in the palace of Shushan where two stories unfold? The story of Esther and the story of Nehemiah.

We've already broken down the story of Esther. But why does God put but why does God put Daniel in the past where the story of Nehemiah reveals a people who are restoring the on. The law is being read. There are books. And all of this occurs around the day of atonement because the feast of trumpets led up to the day of y'all watch this now. Watch this. So some people say that because the Jews were totally like they had forgotten about all these laws and now they found the book. They found the book.

They found the book of the law. Now they're reading it and they're learning for the first time. Some people think that the day of atonement is not mentioned in the text. So on one hand some scholars assume, let's see if I can pull it up here. Here's Matthew Henry's commentary. So watch this. Matthew Henry's commentary. We're almost We're almost there, you guys. The 10th day of the seventh month between the feast of trumpets and the feast of tabernacles was appointed to be the day of atonement. We have no reason to think but that it was religiously observed, though it is it was not though it is not mentioned.

So that's Matthew Henry's take, but I'll need you to see this as well. In Nehemiah 9:1-2, it says, "Now in the 24th day of this month, the children of Israel were assembled with fasting and sackcloth and earth upon them, and the seed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquity of their fathers." So, some people believe that because the the the Jews were so new to the book that they forgot the day of atonement and basically observed it on the 24th day of the month.

In other words, they observed it late. They they saw the event and they they they honored the event, but on the wrong day. The Cambridge Bible says this on his commentary on Nehemiah Nehemiah 9:1. It says uh uh the day of national humiliation and its religious services. It must be admitted that if the great day of atonement were observed at this time, it is strange that that its occurrence in this month was not made use of for the solemn service of confession. Perhaps this was one of the commands of the law of which the stricter observances as of the tabernacle were now first publicly made known to the people.

So in other words, some commentators believe they got the event right but the date wrong. Why is God bringing Daniel into the Sushan where the two stories, one of Esther, one of Nehemiah, have so many parallels to the day of atonement, to judgment, to what we've been teaching as a church since 1844 and Wow. All right. I know I've been saying we're almost done. I know. I just got a few more verses. Okay. Let me tell you. Let me be quiet. Let's just keep going. When you got to jump off, you just go ahead and jump off.

All right. The nice thing about this is that this is recorded, so you can watch it later if you need to. But I'm going to encourage you to just stay because you know what? It's Sabbath all day. It is. It's Sabbath all day. And there is so much richness here. But come on. Let's check this out. Let's check this out. So remember this. Remember this. I'm going to try to get through the rest of this as quickly as I can. So, the wall was finished in the 25th day of the month, elo in 52 days. I just want to pause right there.

The wall was finished in 52 days. 52 days. That is significant. That is significant. Nehemiah when he first starts the work by when he starts the work from the time he goes up on the wall 52 days later the wall is complete. Do you know that Jesus said in John 12:32 he said and I if I be lifted up from the earth will draw all men will draw all men unto me. Here it is on the screen. This he said signifying what death he should die. Jesus went up on the wall. Jesus was lifted up to do a work. And remember how in the text uh in Nehemiah it said that four times they try to get Jesus to come down.

Four time. I'm sorry. Four time they try to get Nehemiah to come down off the wall. Four times. I want y'all to check this out. Let's go to the screen. In Matthew 27:40, the bystanders and the bypassers, thou that destroyth his temple and build it in three days, save thyself, if thou be the son of God, come down from the cross. Now, you want to know what Jesus said? I cannot come down. I have a great work to do. In Matthew 27:42, the chief priests, scribes, and elders, he saved others. Himself he cannot save.

If he be the king of Israel, let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe him. Jesus probably said in his mind, "I cannot come down. and I have a great work to do. How about this? Uh the Roman soldiers. If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. I cannot come down. I have a great work to do. How about this? The thief on the cross. If thou be the Christ, save thyself and us. Four times. down from the cross. And I can imagine that four times Jesus must have responded, "I cannot come down.

I have a great work to do." And do you want to know? Do you want to know what happened 52 days after Jesus was went up on the cross? So he was in the grave for three days and then 50 days later comes the day of Pentecost. 50 days later, fire falls from the sky. And you might be like, "Well, pastor, what is that? What what what is the the significance of fire falling from the sky?" Let me show you. Let me show you. Come on. Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2 verse 3 and 4. They appeared unto them clothing tongues like as a fire, and it sat upon each of them.

And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost and began to speak with other tongues as the spirit gave them utterance. Listen to me. Listen to me. What is this fire? Zechariah 2:5. The Bible says, "For I say the Lord, will be unto her, that is Jerusalem, a wall of fire roundabout, and will be the glory in the midst of her." I need y'all to understand this. I need y'all to understand when fire fell from the sky, that was God's burning presence surrounding his church. It was the wall that was structured around his city, around his people.

That fire beloved is a parallel 52 days later. Jesus completed the temple. He also happened to at the same time inaugurate the temple in heaven 52 days later. And the reason I need y'all to understand this, beloved, I believe that Jesus when he was on the cross, he died with a sword in one hand and a hammer in the other. Yes. He was building and also defending you guys. I I need y'all to understand this. He would not come down and he still got a hammer in his hand. I go to prepare a place for you and if I go, I will come again and receive you unto myself.

and he's still got a sword in his hand. Beloved, I need you to understand this. I need you to this. And now you can probably understand why in the dark ages, listen to me, the Bible says, "And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood." Do you see it up on the screen? Revelation 12:15. The serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman. And now you can begin to understand y'all. If God put a wall of fire around his church, then the serpent, the devil during the dark ages was trying to put that fire out, was trying to to to to to destroy the church and destroy the wall protecting the church.

And we are told that for a time the dragon succeeds. He persecutes the saints of the most high. He gets access to them. But watch this you guys. Watch this. Watch this. God's end time movement is about restoring that wall of fire. There will be a second outpouring of the spirits. There will be a second outpouring of fire, y'all. Yes. Yes. Yes. Put fire in the There will be a second outpouring of the Holy Spirit that will again surround the people of God. It's almost as if, beloved, the the the the the the end time uh hh uh uh event that that God is going to bring upon his church is he's going to create that wall of fire one more time around his church.

Why? Just in time for when those four winds are let loose. Let me speak to you just for a moment on a personal level. I need you to understand beloved that that just as the work was completed in 52 days, Nehemiah did it, Jesus did it in a second dimension. There is a third dimension for us, you and I have a work to do. We have our symbolic 52 52 day period where God is seeking to build a wall of fire around you personally. You have a work to do. Your 52 days is not going to be 52 literal days. Your 52-day period may be months, maybe years.

It may be your entire life, but please know, please know that every one of us who claims Christ has a 52-day period in which we have a work to do. We better have a hammer in one hand and a sword in other. We need to be working in conjunction with the Lord to make sure that there are no gaps that the enemy can come in on you personally. Yes, there are gaps in the church that the enemy is trying to exploit, but there are also gaps in our own personal walls that the enemy is trying to destroy. And listen to me, let me come back to this lineage just for a moment.

Because remember in Nehemiah, what was being tested was your lineage. And I need you to understand that the the thing that shows that you have lineage to Jesus is found right here in John chapter 3 verse 5. Jesus answered, "Verily I say unto you, except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God." That means to be born of fire, y'all. And when you're born of fire, it is the evidence that your lineage goes back to Jesus. You better make sure you have no gaps, y'all.

You got a gap between you and somebody else, fill that gap. Go to your brother. Go to your sister. Fill that gap. Fill that gap because the wall is completed when God's people are united. Praise God for those for those pioneers that built the the sanctuary that we now have, the city that we now have, the the truths of the Sabbath, the state of the dead, the three angels messages, the they built all that. Praise God. But there's still a work to be done, y'all. There is still a work to be done. Revelation 14:6 and 7.

We're almost there now. I promise you, we're almost there. We just got a few verses left. I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, "Fear God, and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come, and worship him that made heaven, the earth, the sea, and the fountains of water." Beloved, this is the work of building the wall. This is the judgment.

Why is God taking Daniel into the palace of Shushan? To show him not only the story of Esther or to not to show him but where the story of Esther takes place and the story of Nehemiah takes place. Why does God want us to understand the story of Esther and the story of Nehemiah as it relates to the 2300 day prophecy? The answer is obvious, y'all. The answer is obvious. The Bible says in Revelation 7, Revelation 7, we got two two scriptures left. Revelation 7 1-4 and then we're going to go to Revelation 21.

Revelation 7 1-4. After these things, I saw another angel uh stand on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God. And he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to her the earth and the sea, saying, "He hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.

And I heard the number of them which were sealed." And they were sealed 140 and 4,000 of all the tribes of the children of Israel. Do you all see this? 144,000. I believe the number is symbolic. I believe the number is symbolic. But 144,000 are sealed. There's no gaps. The church has no gaps in its walls. So when the winds are let loose, when the winds are let loose, when the floods come, the house has been built upon a rock and the walls will not fall when the winds blow. Why is this significant?

This symbolic number of 144,000. Let me show you our closing verse. Revelation 21:10. And he carried me away in the spirit into a great and high mountain, and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, having the glory of God. And her light was like unto a most a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal. Are y'all ready for this? Are y'all ready for this? There no gaps in this wall. Ready for this? Verse 12. It had a great wall, a wall great and high, and had 12 gates, and the gates 12 angels, and the names written thereon, which are the names of the 12 tribes of the children of Israel.

On the east, three gates, on the north, three gates, on the south, three gates, and on the west, three gates. Watch this, y'all. And the wall of the city had 12 foundations, and in them the names of the twel apostles of the lamb. And he talked with me. And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city and the gates thereof and the wall thereof. Watch this. Watch this. And the city lith four square. And the length is as large as the breadth. And he measured the city with the reed 12,000 furongs.

The length of the breath and the height of it are equal. And now watch what happens when he measures the wall. And he measured the wall thereof.4. and 40 and four cubits. Why? Why is the wall 140 and four cubits? According to the measure of a man. Okay. So, commentators are divided on the meaning of this verse. Some believe that according to the measure of a man simply means that it it's according to measurements that a man would use. Others believe that according to the measure of a man literally means according to the measure of a man.

Now I'm not I'm not sure which way to go and I think both ways have probably their pros and their cons. But all I want to say beloved is it is highly significant that the measure of the wall 144. 144 cubits, y'all. That's intertwined that the measurements, it's almost as if the measurements itself are to remind us of the character of his people which was only received through the grace and mercy of the character of Jesus. There's a rebuilding of the wall through Nehemiah. Jesus built a wall. That is a second dimension.

For those of you who understand what I'm saying, there's a third dimension in which we have a personal wall that we have to build. There's a fourth dimension in which the church as a whole has a wall that needs to be built. And when his people are united as one, the wall is built. There are no more breaches that the enemy can get in. There are no more breaches between his people. They are all seeing eye to eye. And there is a fifth wall. It is that wall in the kingdom of heaven. No one can climb over that wall.

No one can go through any gaps in wall. In order to enter into that city, you got to go through the gates. In every one of these walls, you got to go through the gates. A thief and a robber seeks to climb over wall. Why has God taken Daniel? Why did God take Daniel into vision into the palace of Shushan to prepare him to receive the 2300 day prophecy? Go study the book of Esther. Go study the book of Daniel. A judgment is coming. A judgment here. Faith without works is dead. There will be books.

There will be a registry. It shows whether you have genealogy to Christ or not. The judgment will revolve around lots being cast. the initiator of sin and the initiator of the decree to destroy the people of God will have those sins placed upon his own head. The Hmon of the end times will be destroyed by his own devices. That which he set into motion, sin. There is a work for God's people to do, but there is also a faith for God's people to exercise. Faith without works is dead. Esther and Nehemiah reveal without a shadow of a doubt that the investigative judgment in Daniel chapter 8 verse 13 and 14 in the book of Daniel chapter 8 is in fact solid is in fact sound and God is trying to let us know everything we need in order to make it through that judgment.

If it is your desire, if it is your desire to embrace the work ethic of Nehemiah and the faith of Esther and Morai, then know that God has you. Put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat. If you're saying, "Lord, help that to be me. Help that to be me. I want the faith of Esther and I want the work of Nehemiah. I will not come down till I finish the work. I will put my head into this work and I will work as if there is no faith and I will have faith as if there is no work. Help me Lord. Help me Lord.

Heavenly Father, thank you for speaking to us. Thank you for showing us the beauty and the harmony of your word. Thank you, Lord, for this incredible vision of Daniel chapter 8. And thank you for opening this vision up by simply pointing out the palace of Shushan to us. Thank you Lord for putting these scriptures into our minds and our hearts to bring us comfort to bring us peace to know that the judgment is about a reversal of a decision to hurt us. Then Lord help us not to be afraid like Hmon but to be bold like Mori.

Help us not to be wicked like the ungodly, but to do right like Nehemiah. Help us, Lord, to build the wall, to stop the breaches, to repair the paths, and to be ready for when you come again. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. And amen. We're going to go ahead and uh put the link for our afterlow discussion in the chat. Uh it will be uh held at Mighty Networks. Let me go ahead and I'm going to bring you guys to our um our QR uh screen. And so again, you could uh follow us on social media. You can connect with LOC.

Um prayer request, just hit just uh scan those QR codes for whichever one you desire. If you are interested in Bible study, you want to be baptized into the Seventh Day Adventist Church, um please reach out to our Bible, our Bible worker at Bibleworker at living.urch. And um and we will get you set up um studying and prepare preparing for baptism. And again, everyone, may God bless you as you digest this word today. Um, this is part two of a series that I began last week and uh, by God's grace, part three will be coming next week.

All right. So, may God bless you and may God keep you. Amen. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.