Amen. Welcome uh church family. I want to wish you all a happy Sabbath and um we are going to get into the word of God. Um, immediately this morning, we got a very special message and um I I pray that the title of this message will forever be uh written in your minds. Um, by God's grace, this is going to be a revolutionary message. I want you to go ahead and hit that like button, hit that share button, let people know that the sermon is about to begin. And um I'm going to be speaking about something that uh I believe will change the way that we think.

And so with that said, let's pray and we're going to get into the message entitled And it Was So. And it was so. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, bless us, Lord, as we open your word. Please, I pray, Lord, that you would speak through me, Lord, and that you would allow these words, Lord, to affect every person who hears. May they who hear be a great multitude. We pray it in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. All right guys, so the message was not entitled technical difficulties. The message again is entitled and it was so.

And now we are about to go to our slides. So let's go ahead pull our first slide up. uh the title of the message and it was so and it was so. So, we're going to begin with Genesis chapter 1 and verse one where the Bible says, "In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, "Let there be light." and there was light. Please, I want you to note that God simply spoke the word and it was so.

It was so. God said, "Let there be light." And the words itself had creative power so that there was light. Let's go ahead and keep reading. Genesis 1:7, the Bible says, "And God made the firmament and divided the waters that were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament. And it was so." It was so. Genesis 1:9, "And God said, let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear." And it was so. I want you to notice that what God said, it was so.

And when he said it, it was so. Genesis 1 vers 11. And God said, "Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself upon the earth." And put those words in a chat for me, everyone. And it was so. It was so. Genesis 1:es 14 and 15. And God said, "Let there be firmaments in the Let there be lights in the firmaments of the heaven to divide the day from the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and for years.

And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth." And it was so. It was so. Genesis 1 24. And God said, "Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, and the cattle and creeping thing, and the beast of the earth after his kind." And it was so. Those words, beloved, and it was so. May these words change your life forever. May these words alter your Christian walk forever. Come with me to Psalm 33 and verse 6. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth.

So we see here that the word of the Lord is what is behind creation. The word of the Lord, God said it and it was so. Verse 9 of chapter 33 of the book of Psalms. For he spake and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. This is absolutely crucial to understand beloved. It was so. He spake and it was done. In Hebrews 11:3, the Bible says here, "Through faith, we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear." Again, Psalm 148:5, "Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded and they were created."

I want you to understand the power of the word of God. When God speaks it, it is so. When God speaks it, it is so. In fact, note with me Romans 4:1 17. Romans 4:17 it says, "As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations," speaking of Abraham, "Before him whom he believed, even God who quickenth the dead, and calleth those things which be not as though they were." God's word is so powerful that if God promises something, then the promise, the very word of him speaking the promise brings the thing into existence at the time at the time that he desires the thing to come into existence.

So when he said, "Abraham, you're going to have a child." Had God intended for Abraham uh and Sarah to have that child at the moment he spoke the word, they would have had a child at the moment he spoke the word. But God intended for that child to come upon the scene much later. And so God speaks the word and at the appointed time, the thing comes to pass. Y'all put a one in the chat if you understand the concept that I just said. If God had just said, Abraham and Sarah, you have a child. In that instant, it would have been, what's the word I'm looking for, everyone?

It would have been so. So, please again just note with me the power of God's word. We're talking about the power of God's word. The creative power of God's word is is essential for us to understand. Now, now that we've set the foundation there, I now want to introduce you to Jesus in the flesh. This is this is that part of the sermon. And I want you to note with me John chapter 1 verse one. So the Bible says here in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God.

The same was in the beginning with God. Now I appreciate what the slide team is doing here because they are reaching out to all nationalities and I just caught that last week. It was uh uh it was China was the country. This week it's Jamaica. I like that. That's that's creative slide team. Okay. So in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God. So now we understand in fact let's go back to the screen very quickly. It says this same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him and without him was not anything made that was made.

So we now see that Jesus Jesus the son of God was with God. Jesus the son of God was with God. And now we're told that he was the word. Meaning when he spoke when when when the word was manifested everything was again note with me John chapter 1 verse14 and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us and we beheld his glory the glory as of the only begotten of the father full of grace and truth full of grace and truth. So Jesus, we're being told in John 1:14, Jesus is the word made flesh. He is the word made flesh.

That means that within Jesus is the very same power that we found at the creation. In fact, in Desire of Ages, page 19, Ellen White says this. By coming to dwell with us, Jesus was to reveal both God to men and to angels. He was the word of God, God's thought made audible. Wow, that is a powerful statement, y'all. God's thought made audible. In other words, Jesus is the thought of God made audible for us to be able to understand God's thoughts. When you see Jesus, when you hear Jesus, you are hearing the thoughts of God.

Now what I want to show you beloved is that Jesus in himself possessed the same word power that we find in Genesis chapter 1. Let me demonstrate to you. Let's go to the book of Matthew chapter 1 and verse 40. I'm sorry, Mark 1 and verse 40. Mark chapter 1 and verse 40. And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou can make me clean. And Jesus moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will be thou clean.

And sometime after he had spoken, my bad. Many years after he had spoken, my fault. Few hours later after he had spoken, no. And as soon as he had spoken, immediately it was. So y'all put that in the chat for me, please. Immediately it was so. It was so. Immediately the leprosy departed from him and he was cleansed immediately. Let me show you another one. Mark chapter 4 verse 38 and 39. And he was in the hindered part of the ship asleep on a pillow. And they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?

And he a arose and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace be still. And it was so. It was so. The winds ceased and there was a great calm. I need you to understand that in Jesus was the very same power creative power we find in the book of Genesis that it was so power that it was so word again Luke 7:14 and 15 I'm going somewhere with this please follow carefully he he came and touched the buyer and they that bear him stood still and he said, "Young man, I say unto thee, arise." And he that was dead sat up and began to speak.

In other words, it was so. And he delivered him to his mother. Please understand that as soon as Jesus speaks the word, it is so. And now here comes the part that begins the transformation because I want to take you to John chapter 2 verse one. John chapter 2 verse one. And now get ready for this y'all. Are y'all ready? Somebody put a put a eight in the chat if you're ready for what you're about to hear next. Because what you're about to hear next is just absolutely This is the lynch pin, y'all.

This is everything in this sermon and your life changing hinges upon what you're about to hear. John chapter 2:1. And the third day, third day there was a marriage in Canaa of Galilee. And the mother of Jesus was there, and both Jesus was called and his disciples to the marriage. And they wanted wine. The mother of Jesus saith unto him, they have no wine. Jesus saith unto her,"Woman, what have I to do with thee? My hour is not yet come." His mother saith unto his servants, "Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it."

Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. And there were set there six water pots of stone. And the manner of the purifying of the Jews containing two or three firings a piece. Jesus saith unto them, "Fill the water pots with water." And they filled them up to the brim. And he saith unto them, "Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast, and they bear it." And when the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, he knew not whence it was.

But the servants which drew the water knew, the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, and saith unto him, Every man at the beginning does set forth good wine, and when men have well drunk, than that which is worse, but thou has kept the good wine until now. This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Canaa of Galilee and manifest manifested forth his glory and his disciples believed on him. All right. What does Jesus do here? What is the miracle? What is the miracle here? Y'all help me out. What is the miracle that takes place here?

Jesus does what? He turns the water into wine, right? He turns the water into wine. Now, let me ask you something, guys. Um, how does Jesus turn the water into wine? So, I know there's a little bit of delay and I'm just I'm just going to wait for you. It's okay. I'm just going to wait for you. How does Jesus turn the water into wine? Okay. So, MP says he spoke uh Patty says they obeyed uh by his word. All right. by his word. Now, here's my question for you. Where in the text, where in the text does does Jesus say, "Turn the water into wine?"

Where in the text does Jesus say, "Turn the water into wine?" He does not say it in the text. All that happens in the text is Jesus says to the servants, "Do this. Fill the water pots with water." Now somewhere the water turned to wine. And the question is how? Because Jesus did not speak out loud. But he spoke somewhere. Yes. Blessing. It was a thought. It was a thought. In other words, Jesus thought it. He thought it and it wasn't. He didn't tell anyone what he was doing. Not according to the text.

He just said, "Fill this with water." that Jesus does not need to audibly speak for the thing to happen. The word of God just thinking a thing. Let's prove this. Let's go to the book of John 11 verse 41-42. So remember this is the resurrection of Lazarus. The Bible says, "Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his his eyes and said, "Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me." And I knew that thou hearest me always, but because of the people would stand by, I said it, that they may believe that thou has sent me.

Did y'all catch that just now? Jesus prays to the father. He's like, "All right, I know you already heard me. Father, I know I know you already heard my thought, but I'm just going to speak out loud so that the people can hear me when I say the thing. So that they may know and understand that that my word has power. So if I were just to think in my mind, Lazarus, wake up. They may not know to attribute that to me. So for your sakes, I need to speak it. Y'all put a five in the chat if you understand what we just heard.

For your sake, I'm going to speak it so that you can hear that way back there in creation when we read about God said let there be light. It was not necessary for God to even open his mouth to speak. See beloved, don't you and I talk all the time without using our mouths. Don't we talk in our hearts? Don't we think within ourselves? Don't we speak within ourselves? Jesus is the word of God. Had Jesus thought in that moment, everybody wake up. Just imagine. Had Jesus thought in that moment, everybody wake up.

What would have happened? Everybody would have woken up. Now watch this. This means that Jesus had to control his thoughts. Wow. Jesus would have had to control his thoughts and direct his thoughts. Okay, Only Lazarus, wake up. That's right. The cemetery would have been empty. Every grave would have been empty. So then I need you to understand this then that the burden that was upon Jesus was greater than you and I can imagine because Jesus had to be careful of every single thought that he entertained.

understood what I just said. Jesus had to be careful of every thought that he entertained. Luke 4:1, notice with me, Luke 4:1. And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, being 40 days tempted of the devil, and in those days he did eat nothing. And when they were ended, after he afterward hungered, and the devil said unto him, "If thou be the son of God, command this stone that it be made bread." Now, here's what I need y'all to understand.

You you guys, had Jesus for a moment been like, "Yeah, let me turn this stone to bread." Had he thought that for a moment? Are y'all catching what I'm saying here? Had Jesus in his mind for a second thought, "Yes, I'm starving. Let me turn this bread into wine." it. I mean, let me turn this stone into bread. It would have been so And now you can begin to understand the the heavy burden that must have been on because his thought had power. That's right, Keith. He couldn't even think it or it would have happened.

Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying that in his mind he could not be tempted because he was tempted as all of us are. But had he for a moment entertained the temptation and said, "Yes, man. I would really like to do this." Can you imagine? Listen to this. Let me show you how how. Come with me to Luke chapter 9. Luke chapter 9 vers 53 and 54. The Bible says, "And they did not receive him because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem." And when his disciples James and John saw this, they they said, "Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them even as Elias did."

Now, pause for a moment and I want you to think just for a moment. When when James and John say this to Jesus, had Jesus for a moment been like, "That's a good idea. I approve of this idea. I consent to this idea." What would have happened in the instant that Jesus consented to the idea to have fire come down from heaven and consume them? Are y'all catching the significance? Are you catching the significance of what you're hearing right now? Let me show you Colossians chapter 1:16-1 17. The Bible says, "All things were created by him and for him, and he is before all things, and by him all things consist."

Meaning in Jesus, everything that consists, everything that is, is held together by him. by his thoughts. Therefore, all he needs to do, all he needs to do is to think you out of existence and you would be thought out of existence. Did you all hear that? If all things consist in him, in fact, let's look at Hebrews chapter 1:3. Hebrews chapter 1:3 who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person and upholding all things by the word of his power. By the word of his all things are upheld by the word of his power.

Therefore all it would take is a thought. The same word that he thinks in his mind. The same word. He doesn't have to give an audible. All he has to do is think it. By that same process, all he would need to do is to think you out of existence and you are gone. Like a like a finger snap, Terry. Remember this. Remember in John 18 verse4 as Jesus is about to be taken captive and the Bible says uh Jesus therefore knowing all things that should come come upon him went forth and he said unto them whom seek ye they answered Jesus of Nazareth.

Jesus saith unto him I am he. And Judas also which betrayed him stood with them. And as soon as he had said that unto them, I am he. They went backward and fell to the ground. Do you understand that Jesus could have said, "I am he." And in the thought of, "I want I am he to destroy you." Cuz all he wanted there was to say, "I want I am he to let you know that I am God." So, I'm just going to allow a little bit of the power of I am he. like a mini mini many mini many mini fraction of the word I am he just to just so you could see that when you take me captive you're not really taking me captive you have no power over me at all because had he said I am he in full power and in full thought of I am you in the presence of I am will destroy you in that instant They would have been destroyed in that instant.

They would have been destroyed. And so, so this sets the stage then, beloved, for everything else you're about to see. Because watch this. Let's go to Matthew chap 26:47. And while he spake, lo Judas, one of the twel came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staffs from chief priests and the elders of the people. Now he that betrayed betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, the same is he, hold him fast. Hold him fast. Forth with he came to Jesus and said, Hail, Master, and kissed him.

And Jesus said unto him, "Friend, where art thou come?" Hold on. Can we pause for a second? Can we pause for a second? How many of you, as I'm reading these words, your minds are being blown right now? You've read these words before. We've all read these words before. But I just want to want to ask, how many of you, as I'm reading these words with no commentary, I'm just reading the words. How many of you are like, "What in the world?" Come on, let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. So Jesus said unto him, "Friend, wherefore art thou come?"

Then came they and laid hands on Jesus, and took him. And behold, one of them which were with Jesus stretched stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and struck off a servant of the high priest, and smold off his ear. Then said Jesus unto him, "Put up again thy sword into his place. For all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. Thinkkest thou that I cannot now pray to my father." Just a thought, just a thought, and he shall presently give me more than 12 legions of angels. But how then shall shall the scriptures be fulfilled that thus it must be?

In that same hour, said Jesus to the multitude, are you come out against me as as a thief with swords and staffs for toate me? I sat daily with you in the temple and ye laid no hold on me. But all this was done that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him and fled. Y'all listen to me. Listen to me. I want you to imagine the temptation now before y'all may have y'all may have thought had Jesus just spoken the word you guys be destroyed like it takes effort to like you know what let me say it out loud.

No no no no no. Had Jesus at any moment entertained the thought for these enemies to be destroyed in that instant they would have been Are y'all getting this? Are y'all catching this? Let's keep going. Matthew 26:62 and 63. And the high priest arose and said unto and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing? What is it which these witness against thee? But Jesus held his peace. Does that give a new meaning to you? That Jesus held his peace. When I was reading that this morning, I thought to myself, I've always read this verse, Jesus held his peace as Jesus didn't respond to what they were saying or Jesus was like, you know what, I'm just going to be quiet.

I've always looked at the verse like that way. He held his peace. But beloved, now I'm understanding that in this case, Jesus was controlling himself because all he had to do was think, "I don't like you guys." like you guys." And you understand that when you hate someone in your heart, let me let me pause on that for a second. In Isaiah 53:7, he was oppressed. He was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Do you understand that? The reason he opened not his mouth. Now, I need Come back. Come back for a moment.

Come back for a moment. I need you to understand we have two mouths. How many of you know that we have two mouths? How many of you understand that we have two mouths? We have this mouth and we have this mouth or this mouth. right? Wherever you want to go, the the inner mouth and the mouth of the flesh. And so for many of us, we think that in not speaking through the mouth of the flesh, we're good. But God hears the thoughts. Had Jesus inwardly thought for a moment, I don't like these guys and they need to suffer for what they are doing to me.

In that moment, the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the leaders would have been dead. They would have been dead. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. The Bible says in Luke 6:45, "A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that that which is good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil. For of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh." The the mouth speaks out of the abundance of the heart because the heart speaks first. The heart speaks first.

Listen to this. The Jews were continually seeking for and expecting a divinity among them that would be revealed in outward show. And by one flash of overmastering will change the current of all minds, force from them an acknowledgment of his superiority, elevate himself, and gratify the ambition of his people. This being the case, when Christ was treated with contempt, there was a powerful temptation before him to reveal his heavenly character and to compel his persecutors to admit that he was Lord above kings and potentates, priests and temple.

But it was his difficult task to maintain the level of humanity. Do y'all understand this church? Do y'all understand the significance the significance of what of what we are seeing here? had Jesus for an instant been like, "You know what? I'm done with y'all." You know how we often do had Jesus for a moment. Now, why did Jesus not do that for a moment? Listen, listen y'all. It is because he understood the power of his thoughts and understanding the the the the the power of his thoughts. He didn't take his thoughts lightly.

Listen to this. Listen to this. Desire of Ages page 700. He knew that in a moment by the flashing forth of his divine power, he could lay his cruel tormentors in the dust. This made the trial harder to bear. Wow. Jesus knew that had he merely thought, it would have been so. Let's keep reading, y'all. Matthew 27 27-28. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall and gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers. And they stripped him and put on him a scarlet robe. And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head and a reed in his right hand.

And they bowed the knee before him and mocked him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews." And they spit on him and took the reed and smoteed him on the head. And after that he had mocked and after that they had mocked him they took the robe off from him and put his put him in his own raignment and they led him away to crucify him. I need you all to put yourself in Jesus's place for a moment with Jesus's power. when I say that these verses would never have been in existence. How many of you having Jesus's power would have endured what he endured?

How many of you would have been like, notice I didn't say anything. So, I'm I'm I'm trying to show you what I'm thinking. think about bearing that kind of responsibility? Matthew 27:38. Then were the two thieves crucified with him, the one on the right hand, the other on the left. And they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads, saying, "Thou that destroyed the temple, build it in three days, save thyself. If thou be the son of God, come down from the cross." Likewise also the chief priests, mocking him with the scribes and elders, said, "He saved others.

Himself he cannot save. If he be the king, himself he cannot save." Do you understand how they are talking all of this let's say garbage not realizing that Jesus with a with one thought of anger could have could have ended their existence and now may this verse ring in a new way to Here we go. Here it is on the screen. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth on him should not perish but have everlasting life. May that verse, May that verse ring new to you.

Because what I want you to understand, beloved, from thinking evil towards us. You know, the Bible says, "I know the thoughts that I have towards you, thoughts of peace and not of evil." Had Jesus entertained thoughts of evil, we would have been gone. What is it that prevented him from entertaining thoughts of evil? His love for us. It was love that led Jesus to guard his every thought because he knew that one thought could destroy us. This is why John 14:30 Jesus could say this. Hereafter I will not talk much with you for the prince of this world cometh and has nothing in me.

Has how much in me? Nothing in me. Nothing in me. That means Jesus. Let me let me let me let Nel White say it. The prince of this world cometh and has nothing in me. There was in him nothing that responded to Satan's sophistry. He did not consent to to sin. Not even by a thought did he yield to temptation. Do you understand why now? Not even by a thought did he yield to temptation. See, I've read this this statement before. Not even by a thought was Jesus led to led to sin. And I've always looked at that that phrase, not even by a thought was Jesus led to sin.

That it was just like, "No, I'm not sinning." Any anybody ever had that like, "No, I'm not I'm not sinning. You can't get me to sin. I'm not going to sin. I'm not going to think a bad thought and then have to, you know, just be like, oh man, I've sinned and fallen." I'm not going to do that. I've always just looked at it as, you know, a Jesus just he just wasn't he just wasn't playing. He was about his father's business. He wasn't playing. But beloved, now I understand that the reason he did not even yield to sin in his thought is because he knew one wrong thought, one thought of yielding to to the to the enemy, one thought of anger towards us, one thought of forsaking us would have destroyed all of humanity.

And it was his love. It was his love that led him not to entertain that thought. Watch this. It was not Lord help me. How am I going to say this? What kept him from not sinning in thought is also available to us. What motivated Jesus was love. What motivated Jesus was love. Listen, even back in heaven, God could have destroyed Desire of Ages, page 759. God could have destroyed Satan and his sympathizers as easily as one can cast a pebble to the earth, but he did not do this. When Jesus is on the cross and his enemies are surrounding him and they're mocking him and they're spitting upon him and they're beating him and all of these things, Jesus is following the example of his father.

Jesus is showing who he was before he came manifest in the flesh. He's showing himself in the flesh. This is who I am. This is love. Y'all don't understand right now. You're doing this and that. Y'all don't even understand that one simple thought could destroy you. But I love you too much to think evil against you. All right. Now it's time to bring this sermon to us. Philippians chapter 2 verse 5. Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. We could stop right there. We could stop right there.

in Christ Jesus. Do you understand the significance of this verse in light of what we've just read? In other words, God is saying, "I want you to have the mind that understands that to to to think something is for it to be so." And though you don't have the power of divinity to carry out immediately what you think, you don't have that power. You can't think a thing and it is so immediately. No, no, no, no. You think a thing and then you need time and effort to bring that thing to pass. But nonetheless, I need you to understand that once you think the thing, it is as good as so.

Have you ever killed anyone? No. Have you ever killed anyone? put a one in the chat if you ever killed somebody. Put a one in the chat if you have ever killed someone. Listen to me y'all. There will be people in the judgment who will be condemned for murder. Never having thought that they murdered anybody. Proverbs 23 verse 7. For as he thinkketh in his heart. The text says so is he. I'm gonna say It is. So, beloved, do you understand how that changes things for us? I think we've heard it before.

You know, um Jesus says in Matthew 5 27, for example, you have heard that it was said by them of old that thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you that whosoever lookth on a woman to lust after her has committed adultery already with her in his heart. We've read this verse and maybe we've thought of it as a well okay I mean you know doesn't really mean that you've committed already it just means that you know it's as good as you listen to me in Christ Jesus the mind Christ Jesus had was the mind that said if I think the thing Then it is so understand beloved that if we start entering if we start walking in our Christian walk with that responsibility with that burden that if I think the thing it is so do you understand how many how many how much do you understand how much less Lord help me to phrase this right?

Do you understand how many fewer enemies we would have? Do you understand how many fewer people we would hate? Do you understand how many fewer people we would say in our minds, in our hearts, I hate that guy. I hate that girl. I hate this person. Why? Because the Bible says, listen to this. The Bible says in 1 John 3:15, "Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer." Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer. Think about you guys how many crimes you're guilty of. Think of this. if you had the power of Jesus.

And now y'all know for those of y'all that watched the Sabbath school last week, you now know, you know where this sermon is coming from. Because when we had that discussion about the power of the thoughts and the snapping if we had the power of Jesus, how many of us would snap our fingers in our minds to get rid of other people? How many of us would snap our fingers to cheat on our spouses. How many of us would snap on our our snap our fingers to steal and to if by a thought you could have your neighbor's car?

How many of you would be ever so more careful to know as a Christian if I think that that neighbor's without the car and now I have his car and here I am walking around with his car and I feel guilty because he knows I wanted his car and now I have it because my thoughts have power. Just because we cannot bring our thoughts to pass like Jesus can doesn't mean that we are not guilty of the sin. Most of us are only held back by the lack of opportunity to do the thing that we've already committed mentally to.

So we haven't stolen. Why? because we really just don't want to get caught. But if we had the opportunity to without getting caught, if we had the opportunity to do that thing without getting caught, we would do that thing. If we had the opportunity to to indulge that thought without anybody know, we would do that thing. But now we're beginning to understand, wait a minute, when I think it, it is And now that I'm walking around with that burden of and it was so, now I'm realizing just how careful I need to be in my thoughts, which is why 2 Corinthians chapter 10:es 3-5 tell us this.

For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds, casting down what? Imaginations, and every high thing that exaltth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. every thought. Now I'm understanding why my thoughts They don't have the kind of power that God's thoughts have. But now when I begin to understand, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, the mind of Christ refused to think evil because he knew that the mere thought would bring it to pass.

He knew that had he enter had he entertained a thought of hate. We would have been done. And now let me read that statement again from the desire of ages page 123. The prince of this world cometh said Jesus and has nothing in me. There was nothing in him. There was in him nothing that responded to Satan's sophistry. He did not consent to sin. Not even by a thought did he yield to temptation. so it may be with us. Christ's humanity was united with divinity. He was fitted for the conflict by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit and he came to make us partakers of the divine nature.

So long as we are united to him by faith, sin has no more dominion over us. God reaches for the hand of faith in us to direct it to lay fast the hold fast hold upon the divinity of Christ that we may attain to perfection of character. And now beloved again you can understand. Wait a minute. Just think about this. If I had an evil thought to my child, that thought would make my child disappear. Now, how many of you would have children who disappear? Not one. Love would prevent you from ever thinking an evil thought.

If the love of God is dwelling in you, it would prevent you from thinking an evil thought to your children, to your spouse, to your neighbors, to God. Therefore, beloved, love is the key thing. Did you all catch that? If you have the power Right now, if the way mankind was was in the image of God in the sense of if I think this evil, that person disappears. If that burden was on you and the rule was all that needs to happen is you need to be mad at that person, you need to hate that person, you need to not like that person and that person disappears.

How many of you would from this day forward be like, "Okay, I may not like what you're doing. I may not like what you said." And that's fine, but I'm not going to hate you in my heart. Because if I hate you in my heart, then you disappear and then I'm guilty of killing. So because I love God and he has told me to love you, my love for you, even though you're spitting on me and beating me and taking advant Remember how sin started? How did sin start? Isaiah 14:13. We're almost done, you guys. We're almost done.

Isaiah 14:13. How did sin start? For thou has said, with your mouth. For thou has said, with your mouth. No, no, no, no. For thou hast said, in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. What if Lucifer had the power of God? In the moment that he said, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation.

In that very moment, God would have been gone. But Lucifer did not have the power of God. So time and circumstance held Lucifer's thoughts back from coming to full fruition. They took time. He had to exert effort to bring his thoughts to pass. Not so with God. So beloved, when we think a thing, you got to understand that the thing that we think, if the devil can bring about the right circumstances, that thing is going to come to pass. Most of the times, half of the things we think and we we desire after don't come to pass simply because we don't have the opportunity.

But if you were put in the opportunity and your mind has already made up the decision weeks ago, months ago, years ago, this is why Hebrews chapter 4:12 tells us this. For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the desi dividing a sunder of soul and spirit and of the joints and marrow and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Y'all catching this? Come on. I just got a few more few more verses and we're done. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter.

Fear God and keep his commandments for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. Now you can begin to understand, beloved, why a text in the Bible like this exists. My son, forget not my law, but let thine heart keep my commandments. Let thine heart keep my commandments. There's a reason why God wants the law written on your hearts. Jeremiah 31:33. This is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, sayith the Lord.

I will put my law in their inward parts and write them in their hearts and will be their God and they shall be my people. In other words, beloved, God wants the law to be to operate on the thought level. Many of us keep the law on the flesh level. All right? I'm not gonna physically take your stuff. Okay? I'm not gonna physically kill you. All right? But beloved, Jesus when he came, he said, "Listen, I need you to understand that that is not what counts. It counts." Yes. But if that's all you're focused on to the exclusion of the law being written actually in the heart, meaning I realize that my thoughts must be guided by the law.

And now it's no longer a matter of I can't do this because I don't want to sin. No, it's a matter of whoa, if I hate this brother, then he's dead. I've killed him. Yeah, he still walk around in the flesh, but it is as though I have killed him. And I'm not a murderer. I'm a Christian. No, I'm not murdering him. You want me to do what? Sin. You want me to do what? You want me to murder him? Nah, not happening. Not happening. I'm a follower of Jesus. You want me to steal that guy's car? You want me to steal his house?

Nope. Why would I do that? Why would I do that? You You You actually want me to go kill him? No. No. Just think it. Just think it and he's dead. No. No. I'm I can be upset at what he's doing, but nah, no. I'm not going to think evil. I will not entertain you, Satan, even in thought. And now the burden of having to be like, okay, how can I overcome sin? How can I do? How can I? No. Now that burden is gone. And now all you realize is, hey, if I have love in my heart, I am not going to think evil against my neighbor.

I'm not going to tr try to take my neighbor's stuff. I'm not going to have anger towards Noah because that's not who I am. I'm a Christian. I'm not perfect, but I'm a Christian. I'm a follower of Jesus. And I'm just not if go if if if if God is going to call me perfect, let let him call me perfect. All I know is that I'm not going to kill you and I'm not going to bear false witness against you and I'm not going to hate you. I'm not going to coveret against you. No, I'm just not going to do those things.

I'm not saved on my own righteousness cuz I my righteous are as filthy rats. But I can tell you this. I will not entertain you even in thought, Satan. I just won't do it. 1 Peter chapter chapter 2 verse one. We got two more verses after this. We are done. For even here unto were you called. Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. Who did no sin, neither was Gile found in his mouth. See those two different things. Who did no sin, neither was Gile found in his mouth, neither of his mouth, not the fleshly mouth, and not the mouth of his mind.

Watch this. who when he was reviled reviled not again. When he suffered he threatened not because had he threatened they would have been gone. But he committed himself to him that judges righteously who in his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness by whose stripes we are healed. You guys, this is I hope you see this is revolutionary, mindblowing, mindchanging stuff. Now we can understand why the seal of God in Revelation 7 is placed in the mind.

Now I understand why Revelation 7:1, the four winds are being held back. I saw another angel ascending from the east having the seal of the living God. And he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given that heard the earth and the sea saying hurt not the earth neither the sea nor the trees till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads. You're sealed in the forehead. Meaning I will not entertain any thought of harm to my neighbor. That's it. Wow. I will not take advantage.

I will not entertain any thought. I will not covet. I because every one of those every every thought is hurting somebody else. I won't do it. I may have my issues. I may have my struggles. I know. But here's one thing I'm not going to do. Satan, I'm not going to entertain your thoughts. And you will find that in not entertaining the thoughts of Satan. I mean, let God say it. You don't say it, but let God say, "Have you consider considered my servant? Have you considered my children? How they're faithful to me?"

You can't even get them to follow you in thought. Yes, everybody will be tempted. You'll be tempted to think. You'll be tempted to do all kinds of things. That's we're human. We're all going to face temptation. But you could say in your mind, you know what? As appealing as as that may may be or look to the flesh, I'm saying no. I'm not going to entertain it right here. I'm not going to consent to it right here. I've already made up my mind. Not happening. By the grace and power of God, through the love of Jesus, it's not happening.

Put a one in the chat if you are ready to let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus. If you are ready to say, "Lord, help me to live as though my thoughts have the power of life and death in them. Help me to live, Jesus, with the same burden that you lived with so that I will not I will not entertain the devil's suggestions in my mind." And if I can beat the devil here, I've already beaten him in the flesh. I see the ones coming in the chat. I see the ones coming in the chat. Um, I hope this message changes the way you think.

Put it in the chat, everyone. And Walk with those words. No, if I hate that brother, may as well say, and it was so. Help the it was so to be for righteousness sake, not for wickedness sake. Help me to wish good on people. Help me to think well of people. Help me to love people despite sometimes their unlovable natures. Help me, Lord, to have the mind of Jesus. Heavenly Father, thank you for speaking to us. Bless us with your mind. May we carry the burden of understanding the power of our thoughts.

And in carrying this burden, may it change the way we think. May we not snap our fingers and exercise the power of destruction and theft and lying and adultery and stealing and killing, coveting. But Lord, may we resist the enemy because of our love for you and our love for our neighbor. In Jesus name we pray. put the mind of Jesus in us and let us live by it. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. Um beloved, uh we're going to go ahead and put the uh put the uh link for uh the the Zoom I'm sorry, the Mighty Networks.

I'm sorry. We're going to put the link for the Mighty Networks uh into the chat so that you could join us on afterlow and we can discuss the Sabbath school as well as the sermon. And uh I pray that again this message uh has touched your life uh in a way that will change the way that you see things and the way that you walk in your Christian walk today. So may God bless you and uh we will see you again next Sabbath. Please let people know about Living Mana Church. invite people, tell them to get on Mighty Networks and just see what we have going on here um in our online church.

May you be blessed and I'll see you next week. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.