[Music] Hey guys, Pastor Ivor Meyers here and uh in this video we're going to be taking a look at a very special and unique challenge regarding the question of whether the Quran is the final revelation of God's And also, was Muhammad actually sent by God? Um, this challenge is a unique challenge. You have probably never heard this challenge before. If you're a Muslim, I encourage you to watch with an open mind. If you're a Christian, I encourage you to watch because this is going to be very helpful uh in terms of dialoguing uh with someone who may be Muslim.

So, we're going to call this challenge the mathematical chain challenge or I might even say the mathematical chain crisis. And what we're going to do is even though we're going to focus on um the Quran and uh the prophet Muhammad, the so-called prophet Muhammad, um I want to throw in the mix uh Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormons. So, we're going to kind of address both of them at once, but you're going to see they're actually very similar in their claims. Um, so let's uh get ready to jump in because this is going to be mindblowing.

I promise you. Uh, we're going to take a journey through the Bible. You're going to see how God operates on a very specific pattern. And the challenge is very simple. If the Quran and Muhammad and Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormons fits this pattern, then we may know that they were sent of God. If neither fit the pattern, then we may know without question that neither were sent by God. So, let's check this pattern out. We're going to go ahead and begin with the book of Genesis. Now, um we're going to start with two characters in particular, Noah and Methuselah.

So, let's go ahead and break this down. We know that in the book of Genesis, God speaks of a flood that is to come and he sends a prophet by the name of Noah. Now, he tells Noah that mankind has a specific time. There's a time prophecy allotted to man in the days of Noah. That time period is 120 years. Now we can read about this in Genesis chapter 6 and verse three. The Bible says, "And the Lord said, "My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he is also flesh, yet his days shall be 120 years."

So there is the time prophecy. We're going to call it the divine mathematics of God. He says, "Man has 120 years." So Noah preaches 120 years. And at the end of that 120 years, the flood is going to come. Now, let's go ahead and look at something very, very interesting in Genesis chapter 5. It's the genealogy, Noah's genealogy. And what I want you to see here is in Genesis 5:2, they're going to speak about a person by the name of Methuselah. So the Bible says here and Methuselah lived in 187 years and begat Lamech.

So let me summarize this. Methuselah was 187 years old when he fathered Lamek. Now verse 27 goes on to say and all the days of Methuselah were 969 years old. So Methuselah died when he was 969 years old. Now I want you to follow this math carefully. Let's go ahead and we're going to read uh verse 28 and 29. The Bible says, "And Lamech lived 182 years and begat a son and he called his name Noah." So Lamek is 182 years old when he fathers Noah. So what does this mean? Why are we looking at this math?

Well, Methuselah would have been 369 years old when Noah was born. Now, why is this significant? Because in Genesis 7 and verse 6, the Bible says, "And Noah was 600 years old when the floods of the waters were upon the earth." Meaning if we take 369 the age of Methuselah when Noah is born and then we add 600 years that means this is the very year that the flood comes we will find something very interesting. Methuselah is 969 years old when the flood occurs. Meaning in the very year that the flood happened, Methuselah died.

He dies before the flood. In the very year he dies, in that very year the flood happens. Why is this significant? If you look at the name Methuselah, according to Theer's dictionary, here's what his name means. When he dies, there shall be an emission. In other words, when he dies, something is coming. When he dies, it will come. In essence, Methuselah was like a walking prophecy that confirmed the prophet Noah and what he was preaching for 120 years. In the very year that Methuselah died, the flood came.

Why is this significant? Because in this we see how God operates and we're going to see this very pattern throughout the entire Bible. So God sent an initiated prophet that is Noah and then he gives him a time period 120 years. He gives him divine math years, there is a a sign uh if you will of that very prophecy going to meet its fulfillment. Methuselah is the fulfillment, the sign that verifies that God's word was true. Noah is the initiated prophet. Methuselah, his death is the sign that that verified that 120 year period.

All right, this is pre flood. Now, we're going to ask ourselves a question. Does God carry this pattern throughout the rest of the Bible? I want you to just pay attention. Watch carefully, you guys. And I want you to notice something very important here. In the book of Galatians chapter 1 6, the Bible says,"I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel, which is not another. But there be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ.

But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you, that we than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." Let me ask you a question. Let's say that a prophet arose 60 years into Noah's preaching and this prophet uh was able to perform miracles and he even came with a special book that he said God gave him and this prophet said listen I am here to let you know that the flood will be happening in just a few years. What would you be able to know automatically?

That prophet doesn't fit the time period that he doesn't fit the math that God gave to Noah. Therefore, you don't need to listen to that person because God has not sent that individual. Are you with me? God's sign would come at the fulfillment of the time of that prophecy. So someone comes along and says, "Uh, well, I know what Noah said, but I think that this is going to happen a lot sooner." We would know that person was not sent of God. He could have a special book. He could have performed miracles.

We know that that person was not sent of God. Okay. So, let's move on and let's see. Does God continue this pattern? Let's go to the next prophet on the scene, which is Abraham. Because this is now post flood. God calls a man by the name of Abraham or Abram on the scene. Does God give Abraham a prophecy? The answer is yes. It is the 400year prophecy found in Genesis 15 and verse 13. The Bible says, "And he said unto Abram, know of assurityity that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them 400 years, and also that nation whom they shall serve will judge, and afterward they and afterward shall they come out with great substance."

So we see here that God gives Abraham a prophecy and he tells him 400 years. Does someone come at the end of that 400 years to verify the prophecy? The answer is yes. In Exodus chapter 2:10, we read about a man by the name of Moses. We know that Moses comes at the end of just as God had prophesied. Moses comes in fulfillment of the prophecy and he is the one that will deliver the children of Israel out of captivity. So I'm going to ask you a question again. Let's say that someone comes on the scene 200 years into their captivity.

And he says, "Hey, God has sent me with a message. You are about to be delivered." What would we know? This person could have claimed that God gave them a book. They could have performed miracles. What would we know about that so-called prophet? we would know that God did not send him because God already gave a mathematical description, a mathematical chain if you will, that lets us know we're to be looking for something special to happen at this time. Not a hundred years before, not 200 years before, at that time.

Are y'all with me so far? So again we see something quite amazing here. We see God sending an initiated prophet and then a prophet that will verify at the end of the time period given to the initiated prophet. He comes in verification so you can know Moses was sent by God. We know that. Why? Because he came at the right time. Now what does this mean? Very simply, it means this. When Moses writes, you know, his books, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, uh, Numbers, Deuteronomy, we can trust that those books are divinely inspired because they come from the man who was sent by God.

And we know he was sent by God because he came at the right time. Are y'all with me? If someone came 200 years earlier and said, "I was sent by God and and God has sent me to let you know that you're about to be delivered in a year, two years, five years, 10 years." We would know that that person is not speaking on behalf of God. Are y'all with me? So, we have Abraham, the initiated prophet. We have a time period, a mathematical time period, if you will, 400 years. And then we have the fulfillment prophet which is Moses.

Okay. So we know then that Moses is a verified prophet and we can trust the books of Moses. Let's keep moving. Let's I I hope you see where we're going with this. Does God give Moses a prophecy? Well, the answer is yes. You're going to see that chain continues, right? So from uh from uh Noah to Methuselah, Abraham to Moses and now you're going to see Moses himself gives a few prophecies, two in particular. Let's look at those two prophecies. Prophecy number one, uh we'll read from Leviticus 26 32-34.

Now, I want you to understand that this prophecy we're about to read, given by Moses, was given to the children of Israel, letting them know if they were disobedient to the will of God, something was going to happen to them. And we're going to read it in these verses here. So, Leviticus 26:32, it says, "And I will bring the land," this is God speaking here, "I will bring the land into desolation, and your enemies which dwell therein shall be astonished at it. and I will scatter you among the heathen, and will draw out a sword after you, and your land shall be desolate, and your cities waste.

Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths. As long as it lith desolate, and you be in your enemy's land, even then shall the land rest and enjoy her Sabbaths. So Moses is here prophesying that if the children of Israel were to be disobedient, they would be scattered. they would be uh destroyed by a foreign nation, a foreign kingdom. That's prophecy number one. Let's go to prophecy number two. Prophecy number two is found in Deuteronomy 18 and 19. And this is Moses speaking. He's saying or this is God speaking to Moses.

I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren like unto thee, and will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him. And it shall come to pass that whosoever will not hearken unto my words, which he has which which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him. So, prophet num prophecy number one, if you disobey, you're going into captivity. Prophecy number two, I'm sending a prophet among you. Now, we know that many prophets came through Israel.

So, God is speaking here about a very specific prophet. There were many prophets in the Old Testament. God is speaking about a very specific prophet. Notice the book of Acts 3:22. The Bible says here, "For Moses truly said unto the fathers, a prophet shall the Lord your God raise unto you of your brethren, like unto me, him shall you hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you." And it shall come to pass that every soul which will not hear that prophet shall be destroyed from among the people.

Now listen to this next verse very carefully. Yay. And all the prophets from Samuel and those that follow after many as have spoken have likewise foretold of these days. So what the book of acts 3 22- 24 is saying is that since Moses and Samuel would have been the next prophet after Moses from Samuel all the way through all the prophets have spoken about this same prophet to come. All of them they've spoken about this prophet, this same prophet in Deuteronomy 18:18. Now, let me just give a little side note here, which is very interesting.

Muslims believe that Muhammad is that prophet. Mormons believe that Joseph Smith is that prophet. Very interesting. Both groups of people go to Deuteronomy 18 to claim that the prophet like unto Moses is Muhammad for Muslims. And for Mormons, they claim that it is Joseph Smith. All right. So here we have these two prophecies. One, the destruction of Jerusalem. Two, a prophet is coming. What happens is we go to the book of Jeremiah and we find that Jeremiah along with other prophets are verifying what Moses is talking about.

But Jeremiah specifically adds a time period, a mathematic chain if you will, amplifying Moses's prophecy. So he's taking what Moses said, speaking in line with what the previous prophet said and said and and he's saying, listen, the children of Israel are going to spend 70 years in Babylon. You see it right there on the screen. Jeremiah 25:11. And this whole land shall be a desolation and an astonishment, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon 70 years. He's referring to Babylon uh gaining dominion over the territories including Jerusalem.

So Jeremiah puts a time period on this prophecy. The question is, did Jerusalem end up going into captivity for 70 years? The answer is yes. Notice 2 Chronicles 36:15. The Bible says, "And the Lord God of their fathers sent to them by his messengers." So, who would his messengers be? That would be all the prophets from Samuel all the way up to Jeremiah. He sent them uh rising up at times and sending them because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling place. But they mocked the messengers of God and despised his words and misused his prophets until the wrath of the Lord arose against his people till there was no remedy.

All these prophets were speaking right in line with Moses. So what does this tell us? What it tells us, beloved, is that not only can we trust the books of Moses, but we can trust the prophets who came after him because they are all speaking the same thing Moses spoke. They're all talking about this prophet to come and they're all warning of this destruction to come upon Jerusalem. And now they go a step further and put a time stamp on it. Well, 2 Chronicles 36:20 reads, "And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to Babylon, where they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia, to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah until the land had enjoyed her Sabbaths.

For as long as she laid desolate, she kept Sabbath to fulfill three score and 10 years." That's 70 years. So beloved, I want listen again. If a prophet arose and said, "Hey, you guys aren't going to spend 70 years in captivity. You're only going to spend 40 years. And I'm the prophet that is here to tell you that you're about to be set free from your captivity 30 years early." What would we know about that so-called prophet? we would know that that prophet was not sent because he was not speaking in line with the mathematical equation of God.

Are you with me? Are y'all following? So, here's a question. God gives this 70-year prophecy. He he gives it initially through Moses, though Moses doesn't put a time on it. Jeremiah comes along and says it's going to be 70 years. And then, lo and behold, they go into captivity. They're there for 70 years. The question now is does God send a prophet that will that will be at the end of that 70 years that acknowledges the punishment of is of Jerusalem. Well, let's go let's go y'all to the book of Daniel.

You see, in Daniel, who is Daniel? First of all, Daniel was one of the children of Israel who was taken into captivity when Babylon destroyed Jerusalem. And while Daniel is in Babylonian captivity, during that 70-year period, he receives a series of prophecies, time prophecies. Are y'all seeing this? God is letting us know at every step of the way, every prophet he sends. and those in between those time periods are all in line with that particular time period, that particular mathematic prophecy.

So let's look at what Daniel chapter 9 verse 1 and 2 says. Daniel speaking says in the first year of Darius the son of Ahazerus of the seeds of the Mes which was made king over the realm of the Calaldanss in the first year of his reign um I Daniel understood by books the number of the years whereof the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet that he would accomplish how long y'all 70 years in the desolations of Jerusalem. Daniel continues on. He's now praying to God and he's he's rehearsing as it were the sins of Israel.

And notice what he says in verse 13 and 14. As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil is come upon us, yet we made not our prayer before the Lord our God, that we might turn from our iniquities and understand thy truth. Therefore hath the Lord wa watched upon this evil upon the evil and brought it upon us. For the Lord our God is righteous in all his works which he doeth. For we obeyed not his voice. Daniel is literally saying here. What Moses said and what Jeremiah said after him is being fulfilled has been fulfilled.

Daniel comes at that at the ending of that seven-year period and he is he is confirming he is affirming the 70 years given by Jeremiah who got that prophecy from Moses. I hope y'all are seeing this. This lets us know, beloved, that we can trust the book of Daniel. We can trust the book of Daniel because Daniel is writing right on time. He is there right on time and he he points back to this mathematical chain. Are y'all following this? So, we got the the 120 years of the flood. We have the 400 years of captivity, the children of Israel.

We have the 70 years of Babylonian captivity. And now we're in the book of Daniel. And the question for us is, does Daniel give a prophecy that is going to advance us further down this timeline? Check it out, y'all. I want you to see this. We got the initiator prophet Moses and the fulfillment prophets, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Isaiah. All of them, beloved, are right in line with what Moses said. They are right in line with the prophecy of Moses. Number one, that a m that that that a a a prophet is coming and none of them claim to be that prophet.

Number two, that the children of Israel will go into captivity because of their rebellion. And there's a time period connected with this, which brings us down to the book of Daniel. So now the question is, does Daniel himself receive a prophecy that pushes us into the future? And the answer is yes. It is called the 70week prophecy or the 490year prophecy. Now, by far, this is the most detailed prophecy of all the prophecies we've spoken of up to this point. And there's a reason why. So, what we're going to do, we're going to spend the rest of this time on this one prophecy.

And we can spend a whole segment, multiple segments on this prophecy because it is so detailed. But for the purpose of our challenge, we're not going to do that. We're going to try to juice this prophecy down and and and just look at the essential things we need to understand. You may have never heard of this prophecy before, but I just want you to just stay with me, okay? Let's look at this prophecy. The Bible says in Daniel 9 verse 24, an angel is speaking to Daniel and the angel says this, "70 weeks are determined on your people and your holy city to finish the transgressions, make an end of sins, make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy."

We're not going to go into what all of that means. I'm simply going to look at this time period 70 weeks. This is understood to be 70 weeks of years. What does that mean? It means each day in this 70 weeks equals a year. So if you take 70 weeks, 70 times 7 would be 490. But these are not 490 literal days. They are 490 prophetic days. meaning there are 490 years. The 70 weeks really equals 490 years. It's a prophecy. So note what the prophecy is saying here. Note what happens in the very next verse in verse 5 25.

It says, "Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the command to restore and to build Jerusalem." Now pause for a second. remember that Jerusalem has been destroyed by Babylon. So now in this prophecy, what they're being told is, listen, you all are going to go back and be able to rebuild your city and your temple. There were several decrees that were given to allow the children of Israel to do this. We need to find the decree that that is going to start our 490 prophetic years.

Notice what it says. from the going forth of the command to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the prince. Just pause right there. This prophecy is telling us that if we start from that decree and count a certain period of time, what is that certain period of time? It says seven weeks and three score and two weeks. So, so three score would be 60 weeks. 60 and two is 62 weeks. and add that seven is 69 weeks. 69 weeks or 483 of the 490 years is going to bring you to the Messiah. Now, beloved, that's a that's an amazing prophecy to actually tell you the very year down to the very year.

If you start from this decree and count 483 days out of the 490 days, which would mean 483 years out of the 490 years is going to bring you to the Messiah, the anointed one. Okay, that's pretty amazing, y'all. That's pretty amazing. Let's let's check this out. What decree was given that allowed the Jews to rebuild their city and their temple? The decree was given by King Ardos Xerxes in the year 457 BC. This decree not only allowed the children of Israel to continue the work of rebuilding their temple, but this decree, you can read about it in in Ezra 7.

This decree gave the children of is of Israel autonomy allowed them to set up their own judges and magistrates. In other words, to operate as a fully functioning city. So though though there were several decrees in different years, this is the one that gave Israel autonomy. 457. Why is that significant? Let me just read John Gil's commentary on this just to just to kind of bring this point home. Speaking on this verse, he says, "The commencement of the weeks, as he remarks, must be either from the 7th of Artiserxes, which falls on 457 BC or from the 20th of Art of Xerxes, and you are brought to the beginning of John the Baptist preaching up uh preaching um up the advent of the Messiah."

So, let me just break down what what he just said because we're gonna This is beautiful, y'all. This is divine mathematics. If you take 457 BC and count 69 weeks or 483 years, it brings you to 27 AD, which is the very time which John the Baptist is preaching at the Jordan and Jesus comes to him to be baptized. The voice of God is heard saying, "This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased." John the Baptist says, "Behold the lamb of God which takes away the sins of the world." And what does this let us know?

This is a mathematical verification that John the Baptist was sent of God. We can trust what he says. And when he points to Jesus as the lamb of God, who also comes at the very time of Daniel's prophecy, listen to me y'all. If someone came claiming to be the Messiah 60 years earlier, a hundred years earlier, what could you know with certainty? They could have performed all the miracles in the world. They could have had books and books and book they could have shown signs and wonders. We would know that this could not be the Messiah.

Why? Because he doesn't fit the mathematical chain. Are you with me? And I want you to see what we're doing. We started from Genesis and we're notice how we're moving. We've moved all the way into the New Testament. And what I'm about to demonstrate is this chain goes all the way to the end of time. So anyone, let me just let me not jump ahead of myself. Okay, so 27 AD brings us to John the Baptist and the baptism of Jesus. The prophecy doesn't stop there because it goes on to say after and after three score and two weeks.

In other words, after the 69 weeks, the Messiah shall be cut off but not for himself. So sometime after his baptism, the prophecy says he was to be cut off but not for himself. The very next verse tells us this. It says, "And he, the Messiah," some people get that mixed up, that's a whole another study. But he the Messiah shall confirm the covenant with many for one week. And in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and oblation to cease. Now let me ask you a question. A week is seven days, right?

Which would be symbolic of seven years. So what would the midst of the week be? Roughly three and a half years. So let me ask you a question. What happened to Jesus three and a half years after he began his ministry? after he was baptized. Did something happen to Jesus? Did something happen to Jesus that also caused the need for sacrifice and offering to come to an end? Come on, y'all. Are y'all following this? The answer is an obvious yes. Remember Jesus himself said these words in Matthew 26:28.

He says, "For this is my blood of the new testament which is shed for many for the remission of sins." Let me go back to Daniel chapter 9. He shall confirm the covenant with many for one week and cause the sacrifice and oblation to cease in the midst of the week. Jesus did just this. Three and a half years later, he is crucified. As Daniel stated, he is crucified. He is cut off, but not for himself. He didn't die for himself. He died for the world. Are you following this? There are mathematic there are time signatures that verifies all the work of God from the Old Testament all the way into Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.

Now, why am I pointing this out? Because I want you to note something very significant here. Jesus dies three and a half years later in the middle of the week. You know that 50 days later, the spirit is poured out and it's poured out on the disciples. Now, why is that significant? Well, it's significant because we know on the day of Pentecost, Acts chapter 2 verse 1 and 2, uh the Holy Spirit fell. You can read it there. The Holy Spirit fell and now Peter and the disciples start prophesying. You know what that tells us?

That tells us that Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, who wrote 1 John, 2 John, Third John, and the book of Revelation, James, who wrote the book of James, Peter, who wrote 1 and 2 Peter, we can trust them. We can trust their books. Listen to me. We can trust their books as divine of as of divine origin because they fit the timestamp. They came right. They they were they were blessed with the spirit of God, the spirit of prophecy, if you will, in in at the death of Jesus, at the resurrection of Christ, I should say.

And now we can know that not only can we trust the book, the books of Moses. Not only can we trust the the law and the prophets, but we can also trust Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, James, Peter, and the book of Revelation. Why? because the the ones who wrote them fulfill a mathematical timestamp. If you're misunderstanding these authors and what they say, that's a whole different argument. Oh, the book has contradictions. Oh, this that's a whole different because you're not looking at it with with the correct eyes.

But what I want you to understand, beloved, is is we can now know that Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, the disciples who were with Jesus, who received the outpouring of the Holy Spirit in the middle of Daniel's 70th week, were fulfilling a time prophecy. But it doesn't stop there because remember, it's a 70we prophecy. We looked at the first 69 weeks. Jesus comes at the beginning of that 70th week. uh we we see Jesus and John the Baptist. Three and a half years later, Jesus dies and now you have the outpouring of the spirit upon Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, James, Peter, the disciples.

So, we know that the books they wrote were divinely inspired by God, by the Holy Spirit. But there's three and a half years left. And beloved, this bear with me just a moment longer. We're getting down to the challenge, y'all. We are almost there. We are almost there. If you count three and a half years after the death of Jesus, you come to the stoning of Stephen in 34 AD. You want to know what's significant about the stoning of Steven in 34 AD? When Steven is stoned, there's a man there by the name of Paul Saul.

In the very next chapter, Saul runs into Jesus. He is thrown off of his horse. He goes blind for three days. And when those three days are over, he is changed from Saul to Paul. And he becomes the author of the rest of the New Testament, the epistles of Paul. What does this tell us? It tells us, beloved, that Paul and his writings, we can trust him. Why? because he came at the final part of the 70we prophecy. He fulfills divine He is verified as a prophet. You can just look up Wikipedia. What is the what is what is understood to be the year that Paul was converted?

You'll see it 34 AD. Interesting. Interesting that if you take 490 years and you start from 457 BC, you count 490 years, you will end up with the final year being 34 AD. Beloved, this is a prophecy that lets us know that all the people that came in that time period and who wrote books during who wrote books, we can trust them because they were fulfilling divine time prophecies. Why is this so significant, y'all? Look at the chart. Look at the chart. We got John the Baptist. We got Peter and the disciples in the middle of the week.

We got Paul at the end of the week. Meaning all the books of the New Testament, including the book of Revelation, were written by people who fulfilled prophetic timestamps. Listen to me, y'all. Anybody can come along and say, "Oh, this prophet, this is the person that fulfills this pro prophecy because they were blah blah blah blah blah." And look at the similarities. Listen, listen, listen. There are millions of people who believe that Joseph Smith was sent of God. Millions. The same thing with Islam.

Do y'all see the crisis? Do you see why I call it the mathematical prophetic chain crisis? Because, beloved, it's very simple. If you claim to be a prophet, you got to be connected to the chain. You can't just come along anytime you want to and say, "Yeah, God gave me a book and uh look, the whole book's look. Mormons believe that that that an angel came down and and just handed Joseph Smith these plates. Hey, look." Boom. Here it is. The whole writing, this is divinely inspired. And millions of people believe this and they say, "Look at the miracles and look at how could a man do this and that."

Millions of people believe this. But beloved, there's a very simple test. The test is not is the Book of Mormon uh you know does it have truth in it? You know does it have any error in it? Was it ever transl was it ever uh is there any corrupt? That's not the test. Anybody can write a book and claim that the book has no error in it. Claim that the you know the book claim that the book was divinely inspired. The true test of divinity beloved is that you got to fit the math the math. You got to fit the mathematical chain.

So it's a simple question. If this person's a prophet, show us the time prophecy that points to this prophet. Now remember this. If Muhammad is supposed to be the seal of the prophets, the greatest of all prophets. Well beloved, listen. If God has given timestamps for all these so-called lesser prophets, it would there no shadow of a doubt that if some greater greater greater prophet was coming towards the end of time that God would give a time stamp to say this is when you should be looking out.

And if someone claims to be that prophet before this or after it, you can know that that person was not sent by me. Very simple challenge, y'all. Let's let's look at the chart. You got Noah 120 years. Methuselah confirms. You got Abraham 400 years. Moses confirms. You have Moses giving the prophecy of the children of Israel going into captivity and this coming prophet. And you have Jeremiah confirming the time element of them going into captivity. You have Daniel confirming the time element of the prophet that was to come.

And both of them are fulfilled to a te. Then in Daniel, you have you have Daniel pointing to this end of the 70 weeks, which brings to view John the Baptist, Jesus, his disciples, and Paul. All of which are are ultimately responsible for the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, 1 and 2 Peter, James, 1, 2, 3, John, the book of Revelation, the book of Acts, and the epistles, not Jesus himself, but his disciples and Paul. So every book in the Bible is accounted for in this prophetic time chain. So the question now is why isn't there a line connecting to Muhammad?

Why isn't there a line connecting to Joseph Smith? Show us the time prophecy. Don't take me to Isaiah 42. Oh look, this is talking about, you know, Muhama. Don't take me to Deuteronomy 18. Oh, this is talking about Muhammad or Joseph Smith. Show me the time prophecy because otherwise we can make anybody fit anything. But you can't manipulate these times. Beloved, if you can show in the Bible prophecy connected in this line, not just prophecy states that someone would No, no, no. There's going to be a time element because we see it all through the scripture.

We see how God operated from Genesis all the way to Revelation. So, show us where in the book of Daniel, where in the book of Revelation, there is a time prophecy that points to the rise of the final prophet. And if you can't do that, then I think it's pretty clear. I think it's pretty clear that no matter how many miracles, no matter how many claims of divinity, no matter how many claims of here's why we know God, God has not sent that individual. You see, the challenge is very simple. Show us the math that points to the year 610 AD or to the year 1823.

Show us the prophecy that points to either one of these dates as the rise of a final prophet. The prophet in Deuteronomy 18, if you want to take it there. Show us the mathematics. Show us the time prophecy that pinpoints this time period. If you're Muslims, 610. If you're Mormons, 1823. Show us the prophecy that says in this year or around this time, God was going to bring one more, one final prophecy, one final movement, one final book, one final writing. That would be the seal of the prophecies.

That would be the final revelation of the will of God. Because listen, if it's the final revelation of the will of God, it's got to be pretty big. If it's the final prophet, that's got to be huge. I'm sure that God would not have overlooked that while providing all of this mathematics for everything before it. So listen beloved, it's really very simple. If the math doesn't fit, then what you're teaching simply doesn't add up. What you're saying, what you're claiming doesn't matter how many miracles, doesn't matter how many claims of divinity.

It doesn't add up because we've seen how God moves. We've seen how God operates. We've seen his mode of operation. He is a divine mathematician. He is the wonderful numberer. And so if you cannot connect the math, then we have our answer to the dilemma. We don't need to go into debates about, oh, there's errors in the Bible, oh, there's errors in the Quran, or oh, you know, this or that, or these arguments that really end up convincing neither side. All we got to do is provide the math. If you can provide the math, we will believe.

Plain and simple. So, there's the test. May you be willing to follow truth wherever it leads. Remember this y'all. If the math doesn't add up, then it simply doesn't add up. Whatever you believe is the truth simply doesn't add up. May God bless you. May God strengthen you as you seek the truth with all your heart, all your soul, and all your might. God bless you.