Hello friends and welcome back to True Health Tuesdays. I am so glad you're here. I am so glad to be back with you and I'm very very excited about today's topic. Cancer is actually a very personal topic for me. because it's been in my family, lots of family members with cancer. My husband was uh diagnosed with cancer a couple of years ago. And I will tell you all about what we did with his case. Today though, we're going to talk about what I promised in the title, which is um causes cancer. What causes cancer?

So, I'm going to go straight to that. But first of all, I want to talk about well, I want to tell you that first of all, I want to give you a disclaimer. This is not going to be uh uh any type of uh diagnosis. We're not going to give anybody's a treatment or anything like that. So, I just want to let you know this is educational. So, that's the first disclaimer. This is uh don't take this as any kind of treatment or medical advice. Second disclaimer that will be mostly for all my SDA friends will be a spiritual disclaimer and I that just like the first uh program that we had together two weeks ago I want to let you know that with all my presentations this will be 100% in accordance to the Bible and spirit of prophecy.

I will always tell you that at the very beginning because that's how important I think it is to be in harmony with Bible and spirit of prophecy. So rule number one Isaiah 8:20 and uh you already know it but I just want to just in case uh somebody is here for the first time to the law and the testimony if they do not speak according to this word it is because there's no light in them. And as we know, well, many of you already know, many of you might not, but how we interpret this uh Bible verse is that the word um the law and the testimony, we interpret it like this, the law being the Bible and the testimony being uh the spirit of prophecy.

I added one more thing here uh because I think we live in very uh important times right now. I don't know how many of you agree with me. We are living in extremely uh interesting times to say the least. And uh um Revelation is a very relevant book right now. And uh interestingly very relevant for us as the church. Uh Revelation 12:17 says, "And the dragon was enraged with the woman." Who's the woman, by the way? Those of you who are connected, you might want to put in the chat, who do you think the woman is?

I know who I think the woman is. I think that's us, the church. The dragon being the enemy of the church. The dragon was enraged with the woman and went to make war against the rest of her offspring. Who do you think that is? and uh those who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus. Therefore, there Yes, thank you, Don. Uh the enemy, the dragon is at war with us. At war with us, those who keep the testimony of Jesus. Therefore, we need to be more than ever more than ever knowledgeable of everything to do with both spiritual things and health things.

Um, so we know what the testimony of Jesus is because it says in the same book, Revelation, but a little bit, you know, uh, more towards the end of the book, it says that revelation, uh, it says that the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. So just like I said last uh presentation, I recommend just as a starter uh these two books just to get you started. Ministry of healing and councils of diet and food. Uh and number two is the importance of uh scientific evidence. Uh, and what I didn't say last time is the bottom the bottom of this um pyramid if you will is uh the kind of the lowest quality of of scientific evidence and that's opinion.

And uh if you hear just people telling you anecdotes and stories, that's the lowest quality of evidence. The highest quality of evidence is reviews and uh meta analysis. So if you hear scientific evidence, make sure it's good quality. And um and going on on that, by the way, spirit of prophecy. So here are the quotes that I showed you last week that uh the book Christian education says the knowledge of science of all kinds is power. The knowledge of science of all kinds is power. In other words, we're not in some kind of battle against science.

And then the other one says um a practical knowledge of science of human life is necessary in order to glorify God in our bodies. So I don't want to you know stay on this too long because we already saw them last week. I want to go ahead and go to our um to our topic for the day. I'm going to go ahead and skip this one because we saw it last week too. So we're going to talk about cancer today. Cancer is a very scary word. I know it was scary for me when I heard the first time. Um well, you know, I heard it many times in my family, my grandpa, my aunt, uh my my mom's sister, very young age, uh many people in my family.

But when it was my husband, that's when it really really that's when that's when it was more personal. You know what I mean? Like when it's your immediate family, it could be your husband, your your child, your parent, that's when it really touches you. What do you think when you hear the C word? What do you think? Put in the chat what comes to mind when you hear the word cancer. Does it scare you? Does it does it feel different for you when you hear the word cancer than when you hear I don't know diabetes or when you hear the word heart disease?

Does it feel different? Tell me. Put it in the chat if you if it feels different to you because for me it did. When I when when I walked into the um to the recovery room, my husband was recovering from a colonoscopy because, you know, he woke up basically. He was put to sleep when or he was put asleep when he had the colonoscopy and and I I walked in and he just looked at me. He just gave me that look like, yes, it was cancer. And I was like, it just feels so terrible. It just it just feels horrible.

So I don't know how you know if you had that experience if you have share share with us uh how it's felt for you if it feels any different but for me it did it's a scary word I think um yeah it just it has a different feel than any other disease I think just a scary thing it's just it's the uncertainty what's going to happen where does it come from what causes it you know we just don't know it's just the uncertainty it's scary but anyway way. There's cancer statistics uh that are pretty scary, too.

Person born the 19 in 1990 has four times the risk of developing cancer as someone born in 1950. Uh cancer has been going up, as you probably know, especially certain types of cancer. Uh but um there's certain types of cancer have been going up a lot. Um, but this is worldwide, not just in the US, but younger generations. This is scary that younger people or it's happening at younger and younger ages. I want to say um there's 14 sites uh that have been increasing lately. Colorctal cancer is the one that's been increasing a lot lately in younger and younger ages.

I don't know if you've read this in the news. Have you put it put it in the chat if you have been seeing this in the news lately how it's been happening at younger and younger ages but colurectal cancer colon cancer has been really been diagnosed at younger younger ages but these are all the other ones that have been also uh in been increasing lately and um the digestive system h why can that be happening why do you think digestive system. Oh, leading hypothesis. Do you see why? Do you see what the leading hypothesis is here?

Due to what now? Obesity. Well, that's one of the um hypothesis anyway. Inflammation. H I wonder why. All right. Well, this is something that very important that I want to start off with the three stages of cancer. Not the not the same thing as when you actually are diagnosed with cancer. That's different. What I'm talking about here when I talk about the three stages of cancer is the three stages of cancer development. How does it start? Why does it start? All right. So that's what we're going to talk about because this is very important.

Um later we'll see why. But how does cancer initiate in the body and then how does it spread? That's what we're going to talk about. So look at these number one, two, and three. Okay? Number one, two and three. Number one is initiation. Number one, initiation. Number two, this is very important because I want you to remember this later. Number two is promotion. Promotion. And number three is what now? Progression. Okay, these are three different things that need to happen in order for cancer to eventually then be diagnosed.

All right. So, what's initiation? And then we see three different um potential initiators of cancer. Now I want to say something because I'm not going to talk about this very much because you see things here that you probably already heard a lot like chemicals, radiation, but then you hear here you see viruses and you're like what viruses? What? Well, it turns out that 20% of cancers are caused by viruses like HIV. Well, that you that okay. Oh, yeah. HIV. AIDS, right? Like eventually HIV causes AIDS if it's not treated properly.

HPV, EBV, oh, COVID 19. What? Yeah, it turns out SARS KV2. that now that it's been around actually this is the most widespread virus actually now we found out that does cause cancer but there's a bunch of viruses that actually do cause cancer and interestingly I just I just want to let you know this is a parenthesis right now because we're going to talk about other things but just as a parenthesis it turns out that Ellen White in that book that I told you I hope you're reading it it's called Ministry of Healing wrote something pretty interesting Way back more than 100 years ago, people are continually eating flesh that is filled with tuberculus and cancerous germs.

Germs, tuberculosis, cancer, and other fatal diseases are thus communicated. And people are like, "Ah, she doesn't know what she's talking about." People are like laughing. This lady doesn't know what she's talking about. Cancer doesn't come from germs. It turns out now over a hundred years later, oops, she was right. How did she know? Well, anyway, that's for another day because today we're going to concentrate on the other causes really. Um, we're going to talk first talk first of all about some of the chemical causes of cancer because these are quite avoidable.

These are the top chemical carcinogens. As you probably know, tobacco number one uh carcinogen probably in the world. Thank goodness it has been going down in the United States. Uh the rates of tobacco use have gone down dramatically. You know, I remember as a child, you might not believe me, but when I was a kid, my dad used to send me to buy cigarettes for him. I don't know if this happened to you. This was allowed in the 1980s in the country where I lived. My dad would give me money and I would go buy cigarettes for him.

He like, "Okay, here. Uh, no big deal." Uh, and everybody smoked back then, you know. I live I lived in a house surrounded by secondhand smoke. I breathed it in all the time. My lungs are probably not that great because my dad smoked in the house and it was allowed everywhere. So, that was the thing. Thank goodness that has changed. Oh, that's it's just kids wouldn't even believe how we grew up. Kids nowadays. Uh yeah, you even in uh even in uh airplanes. I remember those days. So, I don't know if you remember those days, but it was terrible.

So, thank goodness the air is much cleaner nowadays in that sense. But tobacco has thousands. Uh nicotine, tobacco, cigarettes have thousands of chemicals that cause cancer. FYI. So if you know anyone who smokes, please tell them about this. But number two, do you see that one alcohol? My dad, my dad, I can tell you stories. Uh my dad was one of those people who had this little cup of red wine every night. He had been an Adventist, FYI. But then, you know, he had too many vices, too many um addictions.

And um I would call him say, "Hey, Dad, how you doing? What are you Oh, I'm drinking my little cup of wine. I'm like, "Dad, you know this." You know, the Bible says, you know, alcohol. Oh, but the doctor said, doctor said the wine is good for your heart. Come on. And the doctors were saying that back in the 1990s and it was true. The doctors were saying that. Well, now I think they're eating their words hopefully because now the doctors that are responsible will tell you that the only safe amount of alcohol to drink.

Do you know what you know what that amount is? Do you know? Those of you who know, please put it in the chat. What is the safe amount of alcohol to drink? What is What is it? What is the safe amount of alcohol you can drink every day? What's What's the safe amount? What's the threshold? Do you know what is? Zero. There's no safe amount of alcohol you can drink that will not cause any damage in your body. One drink a day will already increase your likelihood of cake. Thank you, Durk. Thank you very much.

Yes, zero. That's the right amount. No amount of alcohol is safe. No, nothing. Zero. That's the right answer because one drink a day will elevate the loo the risk of cancer by 15% in women uh for breast cancer. So zero is the right amount. And sure people well what about moderate? Okay. Well moderate amount of poison in your liver I guess if that's what you want. I can't tell you any better because any amount of cancer, any amount of alcohol will affect your liver. That's that's it. I can't I you know I can't defend even one drink a day.

I can't because it's poisonous. It's it's it will affect your liver no matter what. Even if small amounts. That's what they say. So it is a carcinogen. It's a carcinogen. But we're going to talk about foods today. Zero is indeed the right amount. Thank you very much. show you all of you guys. But what about the other toxins? Oh my goodness, there's so much stuff out there. Oh, there is so much stuff out there. But I'm going to tell you why. None of this is all that important. Okay, but we have to acknowledge though, there's plastics, there's pesticides, there's, you know, I don't know, in the air, all kinds of smog and stuff and lead.

And by the way, fish, there's another one. People tell me, "Well, what about fish?" You know, that's that's the kind of meat. You know, they say that it's not that bad, but you want me to tell you what I think about fish. You want me to? Maybe I shouldn't. I don't want to offend anyone. Okay, I'll tell you. Okay, please forgive me. I will tell you what I think about fishing because people say, "Well, Jesus ate fish." Yeah. 2,000 years ago. 2,000 years ago, you can walk to a lake, a river, the ocean.

There was no mercury. Yeah. Thank you. Re, yes, biomagnification is the right word. You can walk to the ocean. There was no mercury, no other chemicals, no um all these things agricultural and uh all these uh all this waste from industries, all kinds of stuff that today is there. All these forever chemicals. There were no chemicals 2,000 years ago, but today they're biomagnified. Yes. Because the little uh fish get all this um toxins into their body. Then the medium-sized fish eat the small fish and the bigger fish eat the medium and the bigger fish and so on and so forth.

You eat the bigger fish and you're getting tons of toxins. Fish is the number one as far as diet, number one source of most chemicals and plastics. Fish has nanoplastics like you would not believe. But also plastic bottles have plastics. The water in the plastic bottles. I would say try to avoid plastics as much as you can. So all of these things. Okay. Yes. They're everywhere. So people are like, you know, people have this sometimes this defeist attitude like everything kills us nowadays. Everything gives us cancer.

So let's just give up. Let's just eat burgers all day. No, it's not like that. And I'll tell you why, but later. So, keep that thought in your mind. Why is it not like that? Let's not just say that everything kills us. But today, we are going to talk a little bit about Well, what about food? Huh? Do you think there are foods that might have certain things that initiate cancer? Because we talked about initiate. Remember when we talked about number three, the three things, number one, initiator, initiation, number two, promotion, number three, progression.

So we're talking about here number one, initiation of cancer. What does that mean? That means damage to the cells. So these toxins that we were just talking about, the toxins in cigarettes, the toxins in alcohol, the toxins in chemicals, radiation, all these things, what do they do? They cause damage in cells in the DNA, in the the genes inside of your cells, in the nucleus of your cells. That's where your DNA is. They cause damage to that those genes. And those damaged genes when the cells start to replicate those damaged genes then are also replicated.

And so these damaged cells then start to replicate and that's how cancer then start because these are damaged cells and then they have this flaw in them that then allows them to continue to grow without stopping. Thank you. re initiation. Oh, pollution. That's actually promotion. The second one, initiation, promotion, and progression. Thank you very much. So, someone said processed foods. Thank you. Yes. Oh my goodness. We have so much to talk about. So, I'm just going to I'm just going to get started.

So, what about food? Do you think there are foods that might cause hear me out initiation? Are there foods that might damage our DNA? That's what I'm talking about here. Because yeah, there are foods that might clog our arteries, that might cause what we talked about two weeks ago, uh, insulin resistance, but what about damage our cells, damage our DNA? You know what I'm talking about? Cancer, initiate cancer. What do you think? Well, I'm going to tell you what I learned from a really, really good book.

I don't know how many of you have read this book. I have the old edition somewhere. I don't know what I did with it. I had it just a minute ago and then I bought this newer edition because it has additional chapters. So, I have both editions, the old one and the new one. So, this is from T. Colin Campbell who is a researcher in nutrition. He's not a medical doctor. He's one of those PhD doctors uh who's a researcher and he you know in the 1950s he was one of those uh nutrition researchers who thought that milk was like a miracle from God.

Oo the milk is just wonderful. Uh he well he came from a family who had like uh ranches. So, of course, he supported milk and uh animal foods. And so, he thought protein, animal protein was the best because you can grow, have muscles, all this stuff, and just grow better. And it turns out when he was a young researcher, he went to the Philippines because there was a lot of liver cancer at the time in the Philippines. And he had this, you know, hypothesis in the mind already. he had formed an idea that okay well it's probably the poor children who have the cancer uh in the liver because he thought well at the time it was already known that there's this very very toxic uh compound in peanuts that have gotten moldy so peanuts that are kept in very humid environments where they get mold they have this toxin called aphotoxin toxin in the mold.

It's very carcinogenic, extremely toxic. So he thought, well, that's a poor country over there. So they probably keep the peanuts in um probably in places that are not very well insulated or whatever. They're probably kept in very, you know, in uh in rooms or areas where they're not very well clean or whatever. So they have mold and so they have aphlotoxins. So these poor children who can't eat meat, oh poor kids, they can't afford the meat or the milk or cheese or what have you. They have to eat peanuts that are bad.

So then they are the ones who are getting the cancer. That's was his theory. So he got to the Philippines. Oops. His was wrong. It wasn't the poor children who were getting the liver cancer. It was the affluent children who were getting the liver cancer. That blew away his theory completely. What? How is it possible that kids are eating the better foods, the the meat, the dairy? How is it that they're getting cancer if they're good eating the good foods? And the children who are eating the peanuts, how is it that they're not getting the liver cancer?

It doesn't make any sense. Well, so then he went back to the US Cornell University and he started doing some laboratory experiments with rats and he gave them aphletoxin, very toxic, very carcinogenic toxin. But he separated in them these two groups of rats into groups. One, he gave them a high protein diet. and that the other group a low protein diet to see which ones are going to get the cancer. Guess what happened? You want to know? Here's what happened. Oh, I'm sorry. Here's what happened. The low protein group had very low uh precursor cancer cell precursor development.

In other words, the group that was eating very low protein were hardly getting any cancer development. But the rats that were eating 20% protein, look at what's happening. Do you see what's happening? These rats are eating the good protein as he was as he thought at the moment. Right? These are these are the rats eating the good protein. Why are they getting all the cancer? Does not make sense. He thought, "What the heck?" And then he repeated the same experiment with mice. Do you think he got any different uh results?

Nope. These mice were not getting aphletoxin. These mice were uh mice that had a virus that causes liver cancer. Same thing. He divided them in groups. In this case, in this case, he had a a control group right here. And the other groups, he gave them high amounts of protein, low amount, medium amount of protein, and low amount of protein. So, high, medium, low. The dark you see right here, this is straight from the book, by the way, you guys. This is straight from the book. You'll see this exact picture in the book.

The dark you see right here, cancer. This is the high protein 22%. Do you see any dark here? This is the 6%. Do you see it? Do you see any cancer in the pro in the low protein group? The all the all the mice here have the same virus that causes cancer. They all had the same initiator. That's what I'm trying to tell you guys. They all had the same initiator. Just like with the rats, the rats had all the same initiator. You see what I'm saying? They all had the same very toxic initiator of cancer.

They were all exposed to the same toxin. here. They're all exposed to the same virus that causes cancer, but not all of them developed. Number two, you see why these number these three steps are so important? Because there's number one, initiation, damage to the cells, but number two is promotion. You see the difference here? You can initiate cancer, but all of a sudden the step number two is not happening in everyone, at least in the rats and the mice. We haven't gotten to the people yet. This is just all in the lab.

But do you see what's happening? I hope you're getting what I'm trying to say. So anyway, low protein, no dark spots. medium protein, a little bit, high protein, all kinds of dark spots. And then they're like, "What? This is like zero and 100, like so much difference here. It's like day and night. Let's just flip them. Let's see what happens if we flip them." You know what happened if when they flipped them? The little mice that had no cancer, what do you think happened? Boom. Cancer showed up. And the ones that had the cancer stopped growing.

It's almost as if you had a switch that you can turn on and off. They all had the initiation. Remember this. They all were exposed to cancer, but it didn't develop all the time. It didn't it didn't get to number two. What was the difference? Courtney, thank you, Courtney. The difference was animal protein. Animal protein is like the switch like turn it on and off. Weird, right? It's weird. Strange concept. By the way, the protein that he used, here's a picture of uh Dr. Campbell. Here's the the uh the book.

That's the first uh that's how the first um edition looks. The protein they used, if you noticed, if you were paying attention to the to the captions, the protein they used happened to be casein. Casein. What's casing? Oh, here it is. It says right here. Makes up 87% what? Cow's milk. I think he I think I told you this last time that milk has two kinds of protein. When you make cheese, you can really tell that there's two kinds of protein because when you make cheese, they separate, right? So, you have the clear uh more watery kind of protein that they used to throw away.

Now, they make protein powder out of it. So, it's called whey. So, when you go to the gym, they tell you to take your protein and you put it as powder in your shake or whatever. That's whey. And then the other stuff that they make the cheese out of. So it so cheese is like concentrated caffeine. It really is what it is. But casein is 87% of cow's milk. And it promoted according this is a quote from the book you guys. It promoted all do you see the word right there? All stages as in like one, two, and three.

Yeah. Kurds and way. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yes. Curds is the casein and whey is the clear liquid. So casein makes up 87% of cow's milk protein and promoted all stages one, two, and three. Initiation, promotion, and progression of cancer process. Yikes. I don't know about you. I don't I I don't want any of the stages. I don't know about you. I'm just telling you guys. I'm just telling you guys. All right. Well, what I want to highlight here is that it seemed to especially affect this one because all the mice, all the rats were given an initiator.

All the rats were infected with the virus that causes the liver cancer. The the mice, the rats, they had all been exposed to aphlotoxin, which is very very toxic, extremely toxic. You don't want to have that stuff. And yet not all them not all of them developed the cancer. So they had had all been exposed to number one. And yet something stopped number two. Something stopped. Hm. So anyway, today's topic is causes. So what are some of the potential substances do you think that might be in food other than casein?

Because we already Okay, we saw not casein is potentially one thing that might cause cancer. Are there others? Do you think? What do you think? Yes. Animal protein. We already said, right? animal protein. Let me mention some other ones. Not that I really want to depress you or anything. By the way, we're not going to cover all the topic of cancer today. Okay. Today, well, here's the thing. It might be a little bit of bad news, but as you saw, it's not that bad news because some of these things might be initiators, if you will.

But you see how there's a silver lining. We kind of saw, right? There's a silver lining there because all of these things might cause cancer. Okay? Some of these things I'm going to tell you might be like at the end you might say, "But what am I gonna eat?" Next week I'm going to talk about not next week. Sorry, sorry, sorry. I'm I'm doing it every two weeks because on Tuesdays I also do a presentations at at the church. Um, but two weeks from today I'm going to talk about foods that fight cancer.

So that's the good news. Okay. And also, you kind of saw a little bit how even if you're exposed to things. So, some people tell me, "Oh, but uh foods nowadays, they have chemicals and they have fertilizers and they have, you know, all these things, even fruits." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Don't think like that. I I'll tell you I'll tell you why. I'll tell you why. Don't think like that. Okay? And you saw a little bit how Wait, wait a minute. Even if you're exposed to things like aphletoxin does not mean you're gonna get cancer.

All right? So please don't think you're going to just get bad news today. That's what I'm trying to say. All right? So but still we need to know what are we being exposed to? Should we avoid these things? Hm. Because we don't have to be putting stuff on our bodies all the time that are causing cancer. That's like not a good thing. All right. What are the potential substances that we are exposed to that we should not be exposed to unnecessarily? Let's talk about that. We already said number one, animal protein.

But what in animal protein exactly? Well, I'll tell you what. This is one of the theories. There is a hormone that goes up when we consume high amounts of animal proteins. So this is right now like the working theory or one of the theories of why consuming high amounts of animal protein because by the way if you read the book literally just look at the book and inside of the book he says that the they repeated this exact thing that I showed you with the animal protein the casein they repeated it with gluten which is the protein in wheat.

They did not they did could not repeat the exact results. In other words, gluten did not cause what we saw with casein. They repeated it with soy protein and it did not cause the same results as with animal protein. So they tried to imitate what they saw with animal protein with plant proteins and it did not do that. only animal proteins cause that result that we just saw. Why? Well, one of the things they think is because animal protein, not plant protein, animal protein, elevates a hormone called insulin like growth factor one, otherwise known as IGF1, which is a growth hormone.

Let me ask you this. When you're a child, you're growing, right? You're growing. You're growing. So, you need some growth hormone for that. But when you reach your adult height, let's say at the age, I don't know, 18, 20, maybe 20 to Okay, let's say you you reach the age of 25. Do you need more growth hormone? Like a lot. Do you need a lot of growth hormone in your body? What do you think? Do you need a lot of it? Probably not, right? What do you think happens if you're exposed to a lot of growth hormone unnecessarily?

What starts to grow? What do you think might grow? If you have a lot of growth hormone, well, guess what? You know what grows right here? Cancer. No, thank you, Courtney. You don't need it. When we have excess growth hormone in our body and we do not need it, guess what starts to grow? We're feeding the growth of [Music] cancer. That's what happens. So in this study what they found is people who eat a low protein diet that was associated with a reduction of insulin like growth factor one which then in turn was associated with a reduction in cancer and a reduction in overall mortality.

You see what I'm saying? low protein, low cancer, low mortality. Would you like that in your life? Just a question. And what they found, this is just some detail here, is that in people who are ages 50 because obviously they did that with older people because those are people who tend to have higher mortality and also higher risk of cancer. is that if people at those uh ages what they have is higher risk of cancer. So when you have actually maybe I can make this bigger. Okay, here we go. Um fourfold increase of cancer if you have high protein diet.

and increase of mortality. By the way, today we're not talking about diabetes, but by the way, people who have diabetes usually get a high protein diet as a recommendation or at least low carb. And this incidentally, this uh study found a fivefold increase mortality from diabetes. Yikes. if you eat high protein. Who wants that? I don't know. Not me. Anyway, so that's what happens. Of course, I could be talking about this all day long, but it says right here, insulin resistance. You guys remember what we talked about two weeks ago.

Hope I hope some of you were there two weeks ago, but we talked about insulin resistance. We're talking about here insulin like growth factor. Insulin resistance. Also, I don't know if you remember when we talked about all the different complications. We showed a circle with all the different complications of insulin resistant cancer was there. We didn't have time to talk about it, but now we can mention what happens. It just so happens that insulin, not just insulin like growth factor, but it says right here, I don't know if you could see it.

This is so small but it is hyperinsulinemia meaning a lot of insulin in your body is a hallmark of insulin resistance and the increase in increase bioavailable insulin like growth factor appear to have a role in tumor initiation. Who wants that? Not me. We don't want that. So, we want to avoid diabetes, pre-diabetes, because diabetes is the risk factor for breast cancer. So, what we eat does matter. Yes, it does. Now, there's another thing that I wanted to talk real quick because it's kind of related to diabetes.

You know how people who have diabetes, I don't know if you know, but I work with diabetics a lot. We tell people who have diabetes, don't walk barefoot, for instance, in your house. don't walk barefoot. Why? Because you can stop on a piece of glass and not feel it. They tend to have um they tend to have damage in their nerves sometimes and they don't feel when they step on something and they can get injured and then they get uh infections in their feet and they don't realize. And those infections, I don't know if you know this, they take a long time to heal.

Why? Why do they take a long time to heal? Because people with diabetes have lower immunity. We saw this during COVID. By the way, why did diabetics have a higher risk for uh disease and mortality during COVID? It's because of the lower immunity. What about cancer? Is the immune system related to cancer? That's another uh interesting thing to think about. So is our immunity. Should we be thinking about our immune system? I have a whole different presentation on that. Maybe someday I'll do it. How do we keep our immune system through food, through our lifestyle, exercise, uh sunlight, water, so that we can be fighting cancer through good immunity.

But also diabetes, preventing diabetes. Because if we have high blood sugar, the sugar in our blood constantly high that lowers our immunity and that's another way where we can be our immune system is not fighting those cancer cells. The same the same uh cells in our immune system that fight viruses and bacteria are the same ones that fight cancer cells. That's what I'm trying to say. So that's another thing that I wanted to mention real quick. So that's what we're talking about when it comes to diabetes and the immune system.

We have high risk for infections, immune problems, but also cancer. Okay. So I just wanted to mention parenthesis. All right. Okay. Next thing. This is according to the International Agency for Research on Cancer. I didn't make this up. I did not make this up. This is not me. But according to international agencies, respect to cancer, processed meats, I don't know if you know this, processed meat is considered a carinogen. Class one, what does that mean? Class one is the same uh category as cigarettes.

Did you know tobacco and cigarettes are class carcinogen? In other word is absolutely 100% known that it the likelihood of causing cancer is high. And what is processed meats? Sausages, hot dogs, bacons. You You probably don't eat that. Hopefully. I hope you I hope you don't eat bacon. You don't, right? Okay. Well, what about I don't know. Chicken hot dogs. You know, I I don't think I'm exaggerating. You tell me if you think I'm exaggerating. Okay. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that eating a hot dog is the equivalent of smoking a cigarette.

What do you think? I mean, I'm just stating a a fact. If hot dogs are the same level as cigarettes, according to the International Agency for Research on Cancer, wouldn't you agree that eating a hot dog is the same thing as smoking a cigarette? I'm just saying. Please don't get offended. I'm just saying. All right. uh red meat is 2A. So that's a little lower classification. But the thing is we eat a ton more of red meat. So like 50,000 people die every year they think from eating red meat cons compared to 30,000 people die every year from eating processed meat.

So actually more people eat from red meat eat uh die from eating red meat than die from eating processed meat because a lot more is eaten of red meat. That's the thing. So they're both carcinogenic unfortunate unfortunately for those who eat it. I haven't had it in years. But why? Why? Well, there's a lot of things in meat that might be uh contributing. So, uh I don't know. There's a lot of things that could be doing it, but there's definitely I'm just going to show you. I mean, I'm just going to go through these quickly because there's so much uh science on this.

you I can be boring you with too many studies but for instance this one says red meat intake and risk for breast cancer among premenopausal women in other words younger women um so let me see hold on one second there's one there's another one that says adolescent so young girls um at young ages in other words you can start to increase the risk for cancer. This is cancer, by the way. One day I might do my presentation on heart disease and what pediatricians say about when the risk for heart disease starts might blow your mind.

I don't want to say it now, but it's pretty darn young. It's very young. So anyway, uh so adolescent, yeah, the risk it starts with in adolescence. That's the pro. That's the bottom line. Um, this Oh, okay. I don't want to spoil your Fourth of July or anything, but this one talks about grilling the meat. So, there is a there is a chemical that is formed when you put meat on a grill. So, not only does the red meat have, you know, the protein and the fat and the cholesterol, those are things inherent in the meat, right?

But when you put the meat on the grill, the fact that you're grilling it causes the production of these polyyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which are chemicals basically that are formed. And there's one for instance just going to give there's actually a lot of them that are formed but there's one I'm just going to give you an example of one that's called benzopyrene and just they're mentioned here you know effects of grilling blah blah blah if you want to look it up and read it and all these technical terms but I'm just going to give you the equivalent okay so example benzopyrene okay if grill 2 lbs of meat, it's the equivalent of 600 cigarettes basically of benzo pyrene and 2 lb of grilled meat equals 600 cigarettes.

FYI. So maybe grilled corn or zucchini, potatoes, maybe. Don't be mad at the messenger. I'm just a messenger. Okay. Um I'm just letting you know. So it's for your good. Okay. Okay. So moving forward. Okay. There we go. By the way, they did research in Australia, you guys, on skin cancer. Mercy. I know. Um research in Australia. You think you would think that skin cancer only comes from the sun, you know, being exposed to the sun too long, but yet they found that actually meat eating contributes to it.

So, eating too much meat actually does uh contribute to skin cancer as well. Okay, I'm just going to mention a couple more things. All right, and then I'll give you the good news. Acryomide. Yikes. What in the world is acryumide? It's formed when we cook foods at high temperatures like for instance frying because frying is when you really achieve the very very very high temperatures especially starchy foods. Those are the ones that really produce a lot of acryummites. You know what I mean when I say starchy foods?

Potatoes, tortillas. So like, can you think of starchy foods that are fried that might have acryites? Can you think of an example of a starchy food that is fried? Can you think of something? Well, yeah. I don't want to give you bad news, but um this study for instance says consumption of deep fried foods. So like French fries, French fries and potato chips. Okay, I didn't want to say it, but okay, here it is. French fries and potato chips are like the number one source of acryammites. But honestly, anything that has a batter, you know, things that have like, you know, like these things, uh, cause not just, this is just one example, okay, I'm just saying prostate cancer as an example, but acryomides are be have been, um, have been found to elevate Yeah, French fries.

Thank you guys. Fried rice probably. Yeah. all starchy foods, foods that have carbohydrates, honestly that are fried. Yikes. Sorry you guys. I didn't want to give you so many bad news, but I just want you to know so that when it's better to know not to know, I think so. Here are some of the if you want to have the the um the original research, you have it. Okay, I I want you to know that I'm not making it up. So, I'll you'll have um access to the PDF if you want to have the the the research where it shows.

Okay, I'm not making it up. So, so that you know in case you also want to do these presentations, you're welcome to use my um my slides for sure. Okay, last one. I think I think TMAO. What is TMAO? trimethylamine and oxide. What is that? It's a compound produced by gut bacteria that can be linked to increased risk of heart disease, stroke, and other cardiovascular events and cancer unfortunately. But it's not just with any food that this is produced in the gut. Certain foods produce this particular compound.

uh foods that contain Lcarnitine, choline, lecithin, and high amounts. And these happen to be mostly animal foods. And when they are in the colon, when they interact with the gut bacteria, they produce certain metabolites converted by the enzyme by enzymes in the human liver that then promote that that then actually become TMAO and then promote inflammation and cause diseases such as heart disease, strokes and cancer. So this T TMAO promotes cell proliferation uh proliferation. Andogrogenesis means that the cancer gets all these blood vessels.

So it gets fed with blood vessels. You don't want that. You don't want that. So colurectal cancer obviously because it's the where the where this is being produced a lot of. So uh so here's another one. It's talking about the relationship between the intestinal microbiota. So that's what we were talking about right final. This is the last thing I want to talk about cholesterol. But watch this is from the diet. Cholesterol from the diet because you would not believe the amount of people that fight me on cholesterol.

People argue on cholesterol so much especially people who are on the keto diet. Keto diet, people love it. Carnivore diet nowadays, everybody's on the carnivore diet and people defend it like I don't know, people just like it's like a religion. People love their keto diet, their carnivore diet. And they want to tell you that cholesterol is the best thing in the world. I don't know why. And so they tell you dietary cholesterol does not elevate serum cholesterol. Basically, what they're saying is that you can eat all the cholesterol you want.

It's not going to elevate your LDL cholesterol. Whatever. I don't care. Because guess what? Even if it doesn't, the dietary cholesterol has been found, in other words, the cholesterol you eat, hear me out, the cholesterol you put in your mouth and then you swallow and then goes into your digestive system, that cholesterol has been found to cause cancer. So even if it does not elevate your blood cholesterol, see what I'm talking about the difference. The cholesterol you eat, the foods that have high cholesterol, even if they don't elevate the cholesterol in your blood, which they might not, fine.

That comes from somewhere else. I'll tell you one day when I do the presentation on heart disease, that comes from uh saturated fats, which can be animal or vegetable. Fine. But the cholesterol you do eat, and that's only animal product. There's no such thing as vegetable cholesterol. That's different. The cholesterol you eat does elevate the risk for, do you see right there? Do you see it for cancer? Independent of heart disease. This has not is not related to heart disease, you guys. This is independent of heart disease.

Did you know this, by the way? I don't think a lot of people know about this. I really don't think a lot of people know about this. I think most people have no idea. But here it is. Dietary cholesterol intake and cancer. It's not just one study. I could be here sitting for hours and hours showing you studies, but that would bore you. So, I'm just going to show you like two or three. Cholesterol and breast cancer pathophysiology. Okay. They show you like how it does it. And I'm just going to show you maybe one more.

Uh, egg. Oh, well, okay. Eggs number one source of cholesterol in the diet, by the way. So, eggs is the number one. Okay. Obviously, it's the egg yolk. If you just eat the egg white, it's not going to have the cholesterol. It's just protein. But the egg yolk is the number one source source of cholesterol in the diet. That's indisputable. And here's a a study that links egg consumption with breast cancer. And there's many of these. There's not just one. There's many of these. So what I'm trying to tell you is that there is a clear connection between cholesterol and cancer.

Dietary cholesterol. Okay. I want to finish with a good news with some some semblance of hope because Dr. T. Colin Campbell in the book, The China Study, Page 66, says, hear me out. The results of these and other studies, the results of his studies, when he says these, he says his studies and other studies though show that what's the word there? Look at it. The results of these and other studies show that what nutrition nutrition what we eat, what we put in our mouth is more important in controlling the what you guys in controlling What's the word?

What's the key word? Nutrition is more important in controlling the promotion. What's promotion again? What's promotion? Step number two, remember initiation. That's when the cells are damaged. DNA is damaged by something, a virus, chemical, radiation, whatever, something. But then there's number two, promotion. It has to grow. That cancerous cell, that damaged cell has to replicate. If it doesn't replicate and that then that those two cells become four and those four become eight and those eight become 16 and so on and so forth.

If that doesn't happen, there's no tumor. That's promotion. You see what I'm saying? Those damaged cells have to replicate. That's promotion. If that doesn't happen, there's no tumor. There's no cancer. And look at what it says right here. It's so incredible. I didn't say it. Good thing I didn't say it. Says, "The results of these and other studies show that nutrition what?" Oh, he's so incredible. He has guts. He says nutrition is more important in controlling the promotion of cancer than the doses of cancer initiators.

So when you hear someone tells you, "Oh, everything had causes cancer." No, not everything causes cancer. No, that's not true. Yeah, you can eat maybe a apple that has some, I don't know, pesticides or whatever. You can wash that off first of all, but that apple does not have a protein that will promote the growth of your cancer. You see what I'm saying? But you eat the cheese pizza and it does promote the growth of the cancer. You see the difference? Now, I'm not going to generalize that this always happens.

There's there's different cases. There's different circumstances. This does not apply 100% of the cases. We don't know what other circumstances might be everybody. This is applies in maybe a great percentage of the cases. We don't know every circumstance. We don't know what people have been exposed to in childhood and you know whatever but according to what we have seen in epidemiolog epidemiological studies by the way the reason why the book is called the China study is not because of what he found in the lab because the lab was in Cornell after what he found in Cornell he went to China and he did the China study the biggest epidemiological cancer study ever done and I'll tell you about that next okay next program.

But anyway, please let's try to really get this point. It's more important what you eat than when you're exposed to. That's what he's saying. It's more important what you eat. What are you eating? What are you putting on your plate? What kind of protein are you putting on your plate? Are you eating fried foods? that kind of thing, right? Then whether your foods have fertilizers or whatever now you can wash them off. Try to wash them off. Obviously, there's no need to put ourselves in more danger than we have to, but what we eat is more important, right?

All right, I'm going to finish. Oh, one more quote from Dr. T. Colin Campbell. I love this quote. It gives me so much hope. Cancer promotion is I didn't say it. I'm so glad I didn't say it. Cancer promote promotion. This is what he found in the lab. Cancer promotion is what, you guys? What's the word? I didn't say it. I'm just quoting a researcher. What's the word? Reversible. What? Colin Campbell said it. Cancer promotion is reversible according to his studies and human studies too. By the way, some human studies depending.

Thank you, Ari. Depending on what? On what? On whether the initial cancer growth, the initial. So on whether that initiation in other words on whether the initial cancer growth has what the correct conditions to grow that's what matters. So when you are exposed, does initiator have the right conditions to grow in your body when you were exposed? Now you might not have control of that because say you were exposed when you were a child to radon or whatever and you were eating bunch of meat when you were a kid.

I don't know. Maybe you didn't have control when you were a kid. But now you do. Maybe. Hopefully. You see, that's what matters. So, are you right now? That's the question. Here's the question for you guys. I'm going to leave you with this question. Are you making the conditions now in body correct for cancer growth or not? Are you? I'll leave you with that question. I will talk about this uh next time. I'm going to skip blah blah blah. Next presentation will be May 27th. I will talk about foods that fight cancer.

How to make the conditions in your body not to promote cancer to fight cancer. What I will show you some things that will blow your mind, I think, because they're it's pretty awesome. But obviously, it's more than just diet. Diet is just one aspect. There's a whole lifestyle that we need to incorporate. And I might if I have time I'll touch on some if I have a little bit of time I'm I'll maybe mention the important of exercise of rest of sleep and other things. Uh but it's more than that just diet.

But I just want to leave you with this verse. It says if you diligently heed the voice of the Lord your God and do the thing that is right in his sight give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes. I will put none of these diseases which I have brought on Egyptians for I am the Lord who heals you. What a beautiful, beautiful promise. This is my website help for today.net. Last week I told you I have a 10day Daniel challenge, 10day Daniel menu. You can just go in there healthfor.net. net download it because I told you last week you can improve your health in or not last week last presentation two weeks ago you can improve your health in only 10 days I see it all the time if you didn't watch last presentation you can watch it just go to the channel living mana online church and you can see what can be done in 10 days literally you can improve your health so much so I think I can maybe take five minutes a couple of questions If anybody has any questions, we don't want to keep hear people too long.

Uh but if anybody has a question, we I can definitely I will definitely uh give our production team my slides. So you can definitely have the slides. Absolutely. Yes. So does anyone have any question before we finish? Anybody have any questions? So yes, you can have our slides. remove health inputs or health insults. Yes, absolutely. Remove health insults and replace with health promoters. I really love that. Yes, absolutely. Um and yes, we What about air fryer foods? Thank you. That's a really good question.

Air fryer foods do not achieve the high temperatures that you would get with a with frying in oil. is the oil that elevates the temperatures much higher. So with air fryer it's just air not with not oil the oil elevates the temperatures much higher than that. Uh let's see let's see if there's any other someone asked about oil and air fryer. Yes. Yes. Yeah we got that. So yes oil elevates higher uh the temperature is higher than air. So air fryer is much better. Now of course you can control the temperature right?

So you can always do it a higher temperature than lower. So if you're going to do it a higher temperature, you do it for a shorter amount of time. Then you don't want to do high temperature too high amount of time. Well, you would burn it actually. So the the less amount of burning there is in the food, especially if it's a um um a starchy food, the less amount of burning you do, the better. Can you repeat the website? Yes, it's right here. You see it right here? Healthforday.net. It's right here.

Hell for Today.net. Is it a sin to eat clean meat? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. It's not a sin. Nobody will be saved by what they eat. Only by the blood of Jesus. So now, can you improve your health by leaving it out? Yes. But if you don't have anything else to eat, well, you don't want to starve. Now, if you can avoid it, it's probably better. That's my answer. You probably live longer. That's what the um that's what the research shows. So, that's my answer. But nobody will nobody will be saved by what they eat or not eat.

And it's not a sin to eat it. That's for sure. That's my answer. Uh is it true that flesh is acidic? eating flesh is acidic. So the flesh itself no it's what you when you eat it the um your body becomes acidic and that a hyper acidic diet promotes cancer cell growth. Yeah I would say yes it is it is it is kind of true. Um your body becomes acidic and it's not alkalinic. So you want to eat more of an alkalinic diet. Yes. Absolutely. I agree with that. Can you speak of cohay? you guys want to get me in trouble.

I do not recommend uh coconut oil. And the reason why I do not recommend coconut oil is because it's the highest in saturated fat. And saturated fat is the like coconut oil as far as its chemical um and molecular if you were to look at it you know molecular the the way it's the molecu the molecules look the structure of the molecules one day maybe I'll show you visually so you can see it but the molecular structure of coconut oil is the closest to animal fat literally palm oil and coconut oil are the closest to animal fat.

They're a grease because at room temperature they're solid and so they are the ones who are going to elevate LDL cholesterol apo B cholesterol which is kind of LDL cholesterol total cholesterol the more the most. Uh if you're going to use any oil I would use only extra virgin cold press probably olive oil or anything like that. Maybe avocado oil, if there's such a thing like cold press, extra virgin. You don't want any oil that has been put through heat. So only cold press extra virgin. If you can leave out all oils, even better.

Why? Because oils don't have fiber. And when you consume fat without its fiber, you are not going to be getting that fiber that helps you to uh that fiber helps binds to the fat actually and helps to take out the cholesterol from your body and the oil doesn't have it. It's also more concentrated in calories. So, anyone who wants to lower their cholesterol and lose weight and decrease the insulin resistance is easier if you leave the oil out. If you use any oil, it's better not to heat it up at all or any very little, very tiny little bit.

So, I would use very tiny little bit oil or none at all. All right. Uh, can you do you have Spanish? Yes, I have way more in Spanish than English. I'm gonna be build building up my English, but I have way more in English. And it's salute para punto salute partocom.com. That's uh my Spanish in my my YouTube channel. It's got 38,000, 40,000, 41,000, I don't even know. It's like got lots of videos. So yeah, tons in Spanish. Um yes. So okay, salmon. Salmon is I guess it's got more fatty. It's a fatty fish, so it's got more omega-3s.

But you know where the salmon gets it? From algae. So if you get the algae, omega-3, you're getting it from source. And the salmon probably has the nanoplastics and some of the chemicals and the water that already, you know, some of the heavy metals. So just get it from the I would get it just from the source algae. That's me. Um all right. What else? Uh grape seed oil probably again any oil coldress and uh extra virgin. Okay. Production says last question. Coconut milk better than oil. Yes. And better.

Yeah. It's not as as um it's not as refined. Coconut cream and coconut milk is not as refined as the oil. Mercury. Yes. It's in the water. So it's heavy metal. It's a heavy metal. So it's in the water. and the fish almost everywhere any ocean and all the all the face of the earth unfortunately you guys. All right, I'm going to pray and we'll see you in two weeks. Okay, so I'm going to pray. Thank you very much for for being connected today. I really enjoy doing this as you can tell. Um but thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.

God bless you. I'm going uh pray to finish today's presentation. Okay, let's pray. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for giving us so much information, so much wisdom. Thank you for giving us this wonderful, wonderful, wonderful health message. Thank you for giving us guidance on what to eat, how to care for our bodies, uh telling us that we have a body temple and that it is the the temple of the spirit of your holy spirit. Thank you for for loving us, for saving us and help us Lord if we have not taken good care of our bodies.

Forgive us and give us wisdom to move forward taking proper care of our bodies and help us not to just keep this to ourselves but to help others. There's so many people suffering, so many people sick in this world. Help us to be light to others to take a message of of uh sal of of of salvation and of healing to other people. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. Thank you again.