[Music] Heat. Welcome to Mental Health Monday. We are so happy to have you all here with us this evening. Hello, Dr. White. It's good to see you always. >> Greetings, Sister Tante. Excited about today's program. >> Yes, I am too. we have a special guest, but we're going to get uh more into that in just a little bit. We're going to ask you guys to do what you always do and uh let us know where you are viewing from and um let us know where you're viewing from because we like to see we know that um Living Mana Church is international so we have viewership from all around the world but we like to see specifically where you guys are viewing from.

So, uh, we here at Mental Health Monday are always excited to talk about everything mental health. We cover so many different things and, um, tonight is not going to be any different. Um, we're going to be talking about health, uh, but there's going to be things about mental health, the how they are connected. We're going to be seeing, uh, the ways that they are connected and what we're sharing this evening. So, please put in the chat where you're viewing from so we can say a special welcome to you.

And I don't know about you, Dr. White, but are you seeing your chat? >> Uh, there's no now. I just saw Jason Luxton from Milton, Freewater, Oregon. He beat out Clint. >> Yeah. Welcome, Jason. We're missing Clint. I don't know where Clint is at. Clint is a faithful. He's always here. For the past three years, Clint has been uh with us um so many times here on Mental Health Monday that we just expect it to be him. But we are h happy for all of you being here. We had that two week break. We haven't seen you guys, but we are excited again to be here uh this evening.

So many things have happened. >> There's Clint. There's Clint. We see Amra representing Northern Cal. But yeah, there's Clint. Welcome, Clint. >> Welcome, Clint. You weren't the first tonight, Clint. So that's why we we were worried. We were worried. What a welcome Deborah. I don't know where. Yes. Yes. Deborah, welcome to uh Mental Health Monday. And I was just saying that there's been so many things that have happened since the last time um we were on the air. I'm thinking we we didn't did we do a I'm forgetting.

We did a program right after the um horrible um Yes. assassination. We did do a program. Okay. But I think the things that have transpired after that, we have not been on the air since then. Okay. And there was a sad um it was sad yesterday. I was just you know it was just a Sunday a lazy Sunday and turned on the news and there was another um shooting in Michigan. I don't know if you heard about that. >> Didn't I didn't get any details. I didn't get any details. >> Yeah. There's just in a in a church.

There was a shooting in Michigan at a church at a Mormon church. So Oh no. >> Um yeah. So I don't The last I saw I think one or two um had died but there were six injured. And it's just sad because that you can't feel safe even at a place of worship. This is and a lot of stress. People have a lot of anxiety and stress over these types of things that happen. >> Well, it's really it's really sad because you're going to see more and more armed guards now. >> Yes. >> In in in church settings. And before you know it, it'll be in every setting.

Actually, I saw someone on the news um he works in that field in law enforcement and he said they do recommend many churches hire a security team. It's just like >> living in that time >> just crazy how it's getting, you know, it was >> it really is. And so >> hearing, you know, what, you know, listening to programs like mental health Monday to get tips on how to deal with anxiety and stress >> that is very beneficial because of the times that we're living in. >> Very beneficial. And of course, we're always encouraging our viewers to uh reach out to their own mental health professional in the area that they live.

um just to always have someone that if you need that resource to talk to when you're going through things. So, it's very important >> to have that. But yes, we uh want to jump into our program. Thankful for everyone who is um who has put in the chat uh hello and where they're viewing from. You can continue to do that. We like to see where you are viewing from. But we would like to welcome Dr. Columbus Batiste and we are going to tell you all about his book and the things that he is doing as well.

So we'd like to welcome him here now to the program. Hi. >> Hello. Hello. >> Welcome. Thank you. >> Welcome Doc. >> Yes, for joining us here >> at Mental Health Monday. It's so good to see you. Dr. Batist is actually a a friend of mine and a friend of Dr. White. So, >> absolutely. >> Just we're just here with friends. >> Indeed. I I feel I feel privileged that you all have welcomed me into your uh virtual home finally. >> Yes, it's good to be here. >> We are definitely in our virtual home and we are happy that you are here and we know that um our viewers this evening are going to be uh so blessed by the information that you're going to share.

So, we are excited about that. But, Dr. White, can you tell us more about uh Dr. Batis, please? >> Uh well, no. I gotta pull it up. >> Sorry. I'm not reading the bio. >> While you're pulling it up, I'll tell you the little that I know. So, uh, Dr. Batist and I >> Okay. >> Yeah. Dr. Batist and I have uh sat on a number of uh conferences together. Our churches are we're very near nearby each other. Uh he is blessed to have a lovely wife and uh some wonderful kids. And yeah, I've had the pleasure of actually engaging and enjoying uh his family in some social settings.

So when I say this is not a hostile audience, I mean it. Um and then you're also going to see why we're so excited to have Dr. Batist on because he's just a wealth of information. Um so I so yeah, we can obviously get into the the formality of Dr. expertise being a trained cardiologist with subsp specialty training in interventional cardiology. And the thing that's really exciting, as if that was not enough, um is that he's also passionate about prevention. Passionate about prevention. >> Um so that's what we're really going to get into, but I'm sure Dr.

Sister Tante has a formal bio. Um >> you know, and I I actually don't. In the email that I got, I don't have the formal bio, but um you did say a lot of great things and we're gonna let uh >> No, no, I I can I can load it. I didn't Okay, so here it is. >> Dr. Gumbas Batist is the regional chief cardiologist for Southern California Permanente Medical Group and he's overseeing cardiovascular care delivery for 4.6 million patients. He previously chaired the regional cardiac quality committee advancing initiatives to improve care across age, gender, and racial groups.

In 2018, he spearheaded the development of a virtual cardiac rehabilitation program in partnership with Samsung Technologies, which he continues to lead and which has served tens of thousands of patients through lifestyle medicine principles. Dedicated to advancing community health, he founded Healthy Heart Nation, a nonprofit addressing social and health inequities. He's an international speaker and advocate for whole food plant-based nutrition, and he's published his book, Selfish: A Cardiologist's Guide to Healing a Broken Heart in 2024.

put a one in the chat if you are excited to host Dr. Columbus Batiste here today. >> Yes, we are. We I'm excited. I'm excited. Um just just to tell you a little bit more about the book, it is a holistic guide to healing from stress, anxiety, and depression through self-care, mindset shifts, and plant-based nutrition. >> Absolutely. So I mean just >> all those things. Yes. >> No question. >> So decorated. So um so Dr. Batist uh maybe you know we'll we'll let you say your first words if you'd like or did you just want us to ask you questions?

Would you just >> Yeah. What whichever we're have we're amongst friends this conversation. >> Yeah. Exactly. >> So I have a question. Tell me tell us. Um so when somebody sees the word selfish they think okay how is that that's not good that can't be good for your mental health for relationships for your physical health. So tell us what how you came up with the book selfish and what does that really mean? >> No well that actually is a great question and I don't just say that just like I say it to every you know like that's something I say to everyone.

So I've been in practice nearly 20 years and so taking care of a lot of patients and part of my discussions I have I've had with patients. It would lead me down a pathway of addressing different aspects of their needs. So I went into cardiology thinking I was just going to be straight narrow dealing with the heart and I realized that everything is interconnected. And so I'll never forget watching I'm a huge sports fan. And so I was watching I was watching Michael Jordan and he was giving his acceptance speech into the Hall of Fame or somewhere thereabouts and he said you know what you know in order to be successful you have to be selfish.

>> Mercy >> or else you'll never succeed. And I remember stopping like what is he talking about? >> Kobe didn't say that. Michael >> it was M. It was Michael. You know Kobe Michael. Anyway Kobe Kobe follows Michael, right? They're the same. they're cut from the same uh car rug and they have the same affliction. And so he said, "You know what? You have to be selfish or else you'll never succeed." I remember stopping and pausing >> and it was almost like a movie, A Beautiful Mind with Russell Crowe and where he was dealing with a lot of psychiatric issues.

I think he had schizophrenia. And in this movie, it kind of showed like the numbers he was this genius would just kind of come into place. And it was weird. It was almost as if the letters of selfish took hold in terms of the pillars of of care which was spiritual exercise, love, food, intimacy, sleep and humor. And these were all the components of things that over the years that I would talk to patients about and beyond the aspects of of really um just the traditional medications and procedures and I I would always kind of for years just tell patients, okay, listen, what's the last thing you did for yourself?

>> And they would pause. say, "Look at me." And I say, "I don't want to hear about for the kids. I don't want to hear about your spouse. I don't want to hear about for your job for you." >> Powerful. >> We would talk about things like, you know, tell me the last thing time you laughed, >> you know, and they would pause. I said, tell me the last time you had a good laugh. >> And we would have these conversations. And these were all of the foundational pieces >> that I started really researching these things that I just seem common sense, I would say.

And it just uncovered this entire world of power, untapped power of how each of these pillars can really impact a person's mental health, but not just that, their physical health and more specifically their heart health. >> Powerful. Powerful. >> Yeah. As you're as you're talking, it's just making me think of what I share with a lot of my clients and making sure that they are doing self-care. Um especially parents uh mothers who are just always taking care of their children. They actually, you know, actually getting them to take some time to do some self-care for themselves, pour into themselves.

No, that's beautiful that you're able to teach your patients that. Dr. White, do you have any Did you want to follow up with a question? >> Yeah, I mean, I just I just want I'm just in admiration of how psychologically minded you are, um Dr. Batist and it might have been in an interview where you talked about your experience uh providing care for your father >> and how you you kind of reflected on traditional medical education and its limits and feeling as if you know I've got to do more. um and that playing an important part in your journey.

Um can you comment on that? >> Yeah, you know, we all have an origin story, right? There's things that there we we come to a fork in the road in our lives for different aspects. It could be relationships, it could be our careers, it could be different things that lead us down a pathway that we didn't think we were going to go down. So when I went into medicine, I went into medicine with a specific goal to become the best interventional cardiologist I could, right? And I remember telling individuals when I entered when I joined my first practice, I said I said the answer and solution to ending cardiovascular care, we need to we need to build procedures that can stop this disease and we have them available.

>> And the pathway of seeing my dad succumb to a chronic illness, a chron a chronic preventable illness, an illness that doesn't have to happen >> was one that was eyeopening. At that time I was triple board certified. I was chief of the local department there and I could do nothing at all to really stop that progression. >> And I'll tell you with the mental stress and the strain at that same time, you know, and I talk about this in the book is that I, you know, my dad loved to get dressed up whether it was for church or for business meetings.

And he had his shoes shined. He taught me how to shine my shoes. And so because of the ill effects of diabetes, he developed a foot drop. And so which means that his nerves were impacted by his diabetes and so they no longer worked. So he couldn't flex his foot up which means he would be prone towards tripping. So he had to have a brace which meant that he did not have couldn't wear his shoes any longer. So, as a big-time cardiologist, I found a place back in the day that made his favorite Stacy Adams shoes that would fit >> into the foot brace.

Therefore, >> uh, so he was like a kid in the candy store. He was so happy dressed up with his shiny shoes on and had his suit. But little did he know, and I know that as a result of the pressure from wearing that, it caused a foot ulcer. >> Wow. that ulcer then progressed and became infected and he my dad never walked again. And so and he subsequently passed away years later as a result of a multitude of aspects. And so I felt a tremendous level of guilt with that that was I the one who drove this.

So not only could I not did I not stop it, but did I somehow play a role? And so that was a dark time, you know, in terms of really trying to deal with that of self-gilt and doubt and all of those things. And I, as I began to search and I I talk about this, it was only because of the seeds of resiliency that my parents they they planted in me as a child that I was able to kind of come out of that darkness and see um what God had. And so, you know, it wasn't surprising to me that as a result, I began to search a lot of different aspects of what did I miss?

What else could we have done? What else could I have done? Did I not pay attention? Do I need to pay more closer attention to my patients? Were there things that outside that can happen because we understand that health happens about 20% of health occurs inside the doctor's office and hospitals. 80% occurs outside or what the estimates are. And so what could have been done to encourage my dad outside of medicine, his nutrition, the other components for someone who knew about what to eat well, but keep him on that straight and narrow.

And that began the process of me researching. >> That began the process of me going to Barnes. It started off simple like everyone else. I went to Barnes & Noles. I didn't even go to like PubMed and searches like that. I went to like simple places. And then I went then as that progressed I started going into PubMed. I started going in and I stumbled on books that were impactful that then led me back to a path that perhaps I was trained in unbeknownst to myself years ago as a child. And so that really began to build and I've always had curiosity about how things work.

And so I started learning about the mechanism of action of how food of how our mindset of how how spirituality of how our forgiveness about how the intimacy of relationships of precisely what happens in the body that can transform your health both mental and physical health. So I mean that's a long-winded answer to kind of say that full circle. >> That was beautiful. >> That's beautiful. You know, you know the question that's jumping off the the page right now. Uh Dr. Batist, what's the last selfish thing you did for yourself?

>> Oh, I'll tell you the last selfish day I thing I did for myself was yesterday was my birthday. And I I went and I spent 45 minutes in infrared sauna, which I can talk to you about all the health benefits of that. >> That's >> Then I had a 90minute massage >> and >> that's selfish. That's >> Yes. And then I completely just took time moments of gratitude in terms of being grateful for the past year, all the blessings, um all the challenges, all the successes uh to reflect on those things and to call those out um as well.

And so I did those things in terms of the components of selfish which are important. I exercised too as well, you know, I I laughed a little bit. So all the things I talk about in the book actually I was able to participate in um during yesterday's period of time. >> Happy birthday doc. >> Happy birthday. That's wonderful. I love the things that um you did. The infrared sauna is amazing. >> Yes, >> it's amazing. Amazing. We do have a question. One of the viewers has a question. Uh Clint Ies is asking, "Is there such a thing as healthy obsessive drive towards goals?"

>> Absolutely. Absolutely. Listen, I I set a theme for every year, right? And so that's typically what I'll do when I when I reflect on on the upcoming year and what my goals are. And so I've had intentional as one of my my words of the year for the past couple of years. But this time I decided I was going to make it three-pronged and keep intentional. I said strategic, intentional, and unapologetic. That's where the obsessive component comes in because what may seem as an obsession to others surrounding you that brings is your drive.

That's your meaning. That's your purpose. So when we talk about meaning and purpose, that's such a powerful component and it's tied to longevity and that's a component of you know people when they find their their purpose. Now obviously connecting to um to God and having a drive and a purpose that's what spirituality is. But that meaning and purpose, that connectivity is such a powerful thing. Now, to someone on the outside, the fact that you're driven to your meaning and purpose may seem as if you have an obsession.

And that's where being unapologetic as you're on this journey to achieve your best self becomes important. Because guess what ends up happening? That when others want to have cake and ice cream, they want to go for a pizza party and you're like, you know what? I'm going to be intentional in my efforts. I'm gonna be selfish. That really doesn't I'm gonna be unapologetically selfish because my goals are X, Y, and Z for towards my health. I don't care that others around me may not want may look at me like why aren't you having this?

Why aren't you doing it? That guess what? I need my rest. That I guess I'm going have to be selfish in that moment and I'm going to get my rest. that you know there takes a level of dedication um that that you you see that this interplay plays a role. So I do believe that there is a healthy obsession towards your goals. >> Well said. Well said. When do you suppose selfish would be a bad thing? Well, I think I think anytime that you know I and so now I'm a I'm a as I always like to joke with my admin my assist not assistants but my partners uh in leadership I said you know I'm I'mma get outside my lane a little bit here.

So when I get outside my lane a little bit into to Dr. White's realm and Tante's realm. You know, whenever someone is, we all have a little component of everything, I believe. Right. We have a there's a little bit I have a little bit of obsessive component. Did I lock that door? Let me go back and check that door real quick. Um, you know, a little type A, a little bit of all these little small commot. I describe being depressed a little bit uh for a period of time. It's when it takes over your life, when it's persistent.

Yes. >> Right. That's when it becomes problematic is when it becomes persistent and now despite other things now it turns into being a level of harm either to yourself or to others. And I think there is a there is a fine line with all those things in terms of because one of the components of selfish of true selfish is the eye for intimacy and intimacy is not necessarily in a physical form although it does include that. It's really the it's really the relationships, the positive relationships. And when you're engaging in positive relationships that can be supportive, they can be rewarding.

They can be uplifting. They can be nurturing. Sometimes you have to give a little bit to maintain those pos those relationships, right? You have to give a little bit in that sort of compromise sort of state. And if you're completely self-absorbed, you can't give a little bit for the relationships. >> Well said. Well said. I I forgot where and I'm going to butcher the quote, but it was like maybe I made it up. Who knows? It was like it was like if you want if so actually it was pastor Randy Roberts and he was talking about how um what you focus on like if like like we are on a journey to meet an old man in the case of Aante it's an old woman.

And when we encounter that person, what will they be like? And will they be happy? >> And if we focus on ourselves, that man or woman is not going to be a happy person and they're going to be a pretty small person. >> And if we made others our focus, then that person would be a large and happy person, so to speak. I mean and so and I'm just balancing it with what you're saying. So >> So so I I wholeheartedly agree with you that we have that balancing it is where we're going to get that richness.

>> And and my question basically kind of summarized Deborah's question which was what methods should we apply so you do not lose yourself in self-centerness while still taking care of yourself. So I feel like you answered that. Is that >> Yeah, absolutely. But I mean I think I think when we I think the first letter first pillar of spiritual I mean you know you know if we term biblically and we say seek ye first the kingdom of God and all these things will be added to you >> that our mindset it that determines our direction that determines our focus.

So if our focus starts there everything else follows in line right and that's going to help guide us as we set our purpose that will evolve. It's going to shift. is going to change and it becomes like a domino right so if if I think of it in those terms and I start off with spirituality in in that context and I move to exercise and everyone thinks exercise only as okay I'm going to get in there and do my pelaton I'm doing my my chin-ups whatever it is my tybo if you go back to the 80s but if we exercise belief faith >> all right so so I mean the studies are powerful when you look at the power of exercising belief in that faith and what begins to transform And wonderful work has been done out of Stanford.

Dr. Aliyah Crrum has done phenomenal work kind of looking at the impact even when you tell individuals that guess what housekeepers inside a hotel that what you're doing is exercise that will cause you to lose weight. Changing nothing else. Number of steps didn't change. All of a sudden they lost more weight than the people who didn't believe it. They told people, "Okay, listen. You're drinking this smoothie but this one is high rich in fat." All of a sudden what begins to happen in terms of the body composition based on the mind.

Mercy >> you know and when we compare our medications >> and we all you understand this if you prescribe or you take anything we prescri we compare it to placebo which means an inorganic substance has is inert has no biological activity which means we're comparing it to your mind >> and you have to beat out the mind for it to get approved. But the one thing we're losing in that is I have to also believe in that medication that has some biological activity. So that belief component plays a role. So now you move from spirituality saying your purpose and that's there you're exercising faith and belief.

Now you move to the expression of love >> because love is no longer it's not just a noun it's a verb. And so as you move to that in forgiveness in gratitude in volunteering or altruistic efforts now things the connectivity starts to come take shape and it takes hold and you're moving through that. Then you move to hopefully you're having communal uh food eatings and we're going to skip over food and come back to that later time. Then you're going to the eye of intimacy of relationships. You're building relationships because now guess what?

You have your purpose. You have your belief. You're excit you're expressing that belief through your actions and now these relationships are being formed and you're able to rest and then get joy and humor in life. So, >> right, >> it's all interconnected. >> It's beautiful. >> You know, we have another question. Um, this is from Luetta. Um, I hope I said your name correctly, but she's asking, uh, what do we do with esteem others above yourself, which is, um, a biblical principle when you're talking about being selfish?

I'd like to take a stab at it and then I want you Dr. Batis to as well. Um, you know, even though yes, the book is called selfish, but self-care actually is everything except being truly selfish. You're actually pouring into yourself. I, you know, it's like for me to show up to be a good wife, to be a good mom, even to be a good therapist, I need to uh do my self-care, pour into myself so I can show up and be the best version of myself. So, you're actually not being selfish. You're making yourself the better version of yourself, doing the things that you need to do.

So you have you're in a healthy mind space so you can be a good mom, be a good uh mother, be a good whatever uh your work field is. But Dr. Patise, please answer her question from your head. >> No, you're you're you're absolutely right and and I mean it's you you want to engage in the principles of being selfish as I outlined them, >> not in the personal not in a humanistic perspective. A humanistic approach towards being selfish is it's my my my mind my mind my mind my mind my mind my as if you're a petulant child the biblical Christlike perspective as it pertains to being selfish is just what I outlined >> it's the spirituality it's the ex it's the the exercising belief it's the love as an action it's the food whether or not it's it's uh you know the intimacy of relationships it's the sleep or the day of rest and coming away it's the joy of life those are all the components the humor that plays a role in truly being a spiritual a Christlike I believe a a god- centered selfishness is what is what you have to to to look at.

I mean, you think of from a biblical perspective when Christ went away from his kids as a his parents as a teen and he said, "Listen, I got to be about my father's business." Yeah. >> Right. >> That's right. >> Some like, "What are you talking about? How you going to talk to your parents like that? That's selfish." >> When he said Christ had kids, when he said Christ had kids, I almost fell out of my chair. >> No, no, no, no, no, no. When he was with his parents like that. Yeah. When he when he was a kid, a child.

>> Yeah. >> No. Yes. No. Um, well, yes, please put your continue to put your questions in the chat because you guys are part of this program and we want you to get everything out of it while we have Dr. Batist here. But I have a question. Um, so tell us on how being selfish like with your diet like how what the things that you um eat and and how does that affect um your heart? >> Yeah. So >> your cardiologist >> well when I look at I mean we've taken we've broken food down into into macronutrients and food has transformed over the years and food is relationship food is personal with people right it brings joy it brings happiness it brings memories emotions are tied to it that's there that we know on a regular basis but when we look at where are the medicinal properties of food right it's where the medicinal properties of food it's clear it's clearly evident the foods that will transform the your life really are found in the foods that have been given to us on the earth right so fruits vegetables whole grains beans blooms nuts and seeds there is zero doubt about it so when I break that down and we start going through from a standpoint sim uh from a from your health whether it's mental health or physical health and we walk through those principles and we look at what is the power of vegetables well we'll take power of like green leafy vegetables for instance right pap was right when he talked about the muscles growing and eating and the spinach.

But we know that releases something called dietary nitrates that your body will your as you chew you begin to transform and all of a sudden what begins to happen is your vessels will dilate because it interacts with the lining of the vessel called the endothelium that leads to what we call basodilitation. That's powerful. We also understand that this fiber that's contained inside of not just the vegetables but inside the whole the whole grains. This fiber what it does it acts like a sponge. It soaks up something called bile acids.

Bile acids are like detergents that your body uses to break down the fats that you eat. And so when it absorbs the bile acids and secretes it, the bile acids are made of cholesterol. So your body has to pull up pull in more cholesterol out the system which lowers your total cholesterol. >> Decreases the likelihood of plaque formation or heart attacks happen. But it doesn't just stop there. Now, these foods, what they begin to do is that they feed in they feed what's called your gut microbiome, right?

So, what many people don't understand, and if you told me this when I was a kid, I would have completely lost it. I would have had to go see Dr. White, that I'm you're actually more bacterial DNA than you are human DNA. >> You're more bacterial DNA and viral DNA than you are human DNA. And what that means, you have this whole network that's living and breathing inside of you. And everything we do either feeds the good guys or feeds the bad guys. That's what I used to tell my kids when they were small.

And so what studies have shown is that as we feed the good guys with with fiber richch foods, all of a sudden they break this down to something called short- chain fatty acids. We know that it's going to release serotonin. We know that it's going to decrease the inflammation. We know that it's going to empower your body to decrease cancer. There's so much power that's there that is is laden at your fingertips from it. But it doesn't stop there. My favorite fruit of all, it's become this way since I've been an adult and started studying this stuff are berries.

And berries are so important. And so here's the reason why. When you think I mentioned Michael Jordan, but let's think of any celebrity. What do most celebrities have with them? Who's around them down the street? >> Trainers. >> Oh, bodyguards. >> Bodyguards. They got their bodyguards with them. They're not going out there. What's the other thing we know about celebrities? You kind of know them by one name. >> You don't have to be like, "Well, Columbus who batis, you know, Batiste, you're not trying."

You know them by name. You know them by one name, right? Kobe, you say Kobe, right? MJ, you go one name they know him by. >> Well, the celebrities of the food, you know them by one name, one ingredient. Blueberries, strawberries, raspberries, beans, greens, rice, singular names. And they carry with them bodyguards called antioxidants. What we have to understand is that our body is constantly under attack by something called free radicals. And these free radicals are looking to take and destroy us.

And these free radicals bombard our cells and they disrupt the cells. They steal the joy. They call it electrons. They steal and snatch it causing that cell to die. And so when you get these free radicals, they stand in the way. They stand they they absorb the attacks from the free radicals. Doesn't sound familiar, right? And so as your bo as you eat more and more of these antioxidants, you now are defending yourself. You're loading yourself with free rad with with bodyguards on a daily basis. And that's power of eating selfishly through a plant-rich diet.

Right? So I try and focus on what are you eating for your health. So when people ask me, well, what you're trying to say that this is bad for me. I'm not trying to say is it bad for you. I'm trying to say, can you tell me how it's good for you? Oh, I like that. >> It tastes good. >> I like that. I like that. >> But you have to tell me how it's good for you. I'm about trying to intervene. So, >> uh, Dr. White said something earlier. He said that I was about I'm about the power of prevention. And I have to humbly disagree.

I I don't believe there is any prevention. There's only intervention. >> There is only intervention because I'll tell you what, disease starts from the moment we pop out the womb. There are actually studies that have shown that in some individuals, mothers are smokers. you get start to get thickening of the lining of the vessels of the of the heart in uterero that we know that atherosceros scerosis begins before the age of 10 as early as two years of age it progresses that individuals will have this and that it's a silent progression and this goes to multiple disease states >> that we're all living with microscopic uh uh cellular death that's leading to cancer and so we're constantly in this struggle between illness and wellness and the question is who are we feeding the good guys or the bad guys?

>> You know, you just dropped so much science on us. >> I know. But I think I think all the men will want you to expand on your discussion about spinach and nitrates. Uh Dr. Batiz, why is nitrates something that we as as as men will be very interested in and women too, but especially men? Well, you know, I'll tell you there are many bodily functions that rely upon it, right? So, when we talk about when we talk about the ability to procreate to to to one of the things that men suffer with as they enter into Well, first, let me take a step back.

One of the things that I first noticed during watching sports is that there's always these commercials about erectile dysfunction medications. >> They're pervasive. And what's so interesting is that over the years, the individuals in the commercial, if you've ever noticed, and not because I'm getting older, but the people are getting younger and younger. Before they would show like senior citizens in these erectile dysfunction commercials. Now they're showing 30 year olds in erectile dysfunction commercials.

They're they're advertising on social media. And the question is why? Now, we understand there's a mental health component that can play a role in it. We know there's multiple aspects but I'll tell you the root cause is a vascular issue. Uh it's a vascular issue and as the vessels become restrictive there becomes an issue that that happens. That's where study after study tells us the power that as you begin to eat fruits and vegetables and whole grains there's improvement in erectile function there's an improvement as a whole.

But you know you mentioned men but this also pertains to women. >> Yeah. So when we look at women, women have a superpower literally. So I am of the belief that women that means that's a tante is way smarter than what we are. They have like this level of intelligence that's that's pervasive. I believe it. I've seen it throughout school and everything. >> You lose your superpower when you start going through menopause that estrogen is a superpower. Now all of a sudden as that estrogen begins to drop all of a sudden you start becoming subject to all of the ills that men do.

The visceral fat we start seeing the cholesterol being shifting the endothelium becomes impacted because of low estrogen. So we know the power of the principles of selfish that really can help restore and as an avenue to help uh uh uh women as they enter this permenopausal and menopausal state to regain their power and their vitality as much as possible. And we see the benefits of it and that's been demonstrated lower rates of hot flashes, lower rates of occurrence of diabetes and of of uh heart attacks when you engage in eating a whole food plant-based diet.

when you engage in the components of selfish that I've kind of mentioned already. >> Well, there's many men in the chat who are thanking you for sharing that uh information. So, they appreciate it. Okay. We appreciate it, too. >> But you something else you said when you were uh just dropping all those scientific facts. You were um talking about healthy microbiome. Um, and that's where I know that 95% of serotonin is produced in the gut. So, you need to have a healthy the healthy bacteria. >> Um, so you're saying a plant-based diet does that that helps you with that?

>> Absolutely. It's a it's a Let me let me rephrase, but you go first. Well, I just wanted to say just so um our viewers, I wanted to just say when we're talking about serotonin, this is um one of the the chemicals that help us to have like the happy hormone that makes us feel good. And so that's why it's so important for our mental health. But go ahead, doctor. >> Well, I was just going to say, you know, a lot of things are labeled plant-based. I mean, if you really get at it, you're looking at foods that that make you chew.

That means they're rich in fiber. And it's that fiber that does the magic. Your soluble and insoluble fiber. So, as you're having if you and what I mean by chew is think about I remember back in the day uh my dad would buy a bread called home pride bread. I don't know if they make it or not anymore. And this bread you it melts in your mouth, not in your hands. It just you put in there. You don't even have to chew. It starts melting right away. And you juxtapose that with something called Ezekiel 949 bread.

You're chewing for days when you're eating that bread. Yep. You're chewing for days. And why is that? Because it's rich in fiber. It's rich in fiber. And that fiber is the stuff that makes a diverse microbiome. But here's hear me with this part. What studies have shown is that when you have a diverse microbiome, >> that your immunity is greater. Your strength is greater. Your ability to withstand disease is greater. We're greater collectively the more diverse we are. Now, you take that where you want on a national level or anywhere else.

We're stronger the more diverse we are across the board. Powerful. >> Wow. That is so powerful. I think we have another another question. Um, does that also pertain to men going through um is that >> andropause at a younger age now. >> At a younger age now. Thank you. >> You know, there's so many one of the things that you're looking at. You're looking at that's a great question. So what we're facing right now is we're facing like a world in which we're having lots of what are called endocrine disruptors that are there and that may be from microplastics.

It may be from the processing of foods. It could be the way in which we're cooking the foods. And so we're really under significant attacks as it relates to the way in which our modernized society lives. And that's myself included. And so one of the things that becomes important, listen, I want to tell you how significant it is. I wanted to have a plant. So, I got this little shabby little Charlie Brown plant back here because I don't have a green thumb. And so, I did not want to have a plastic plant behind me because of the microlastics that circulate.

So, I bought one that forces me to try and water it and bring it put in some sunlight and everything of that sort. As you're exposed by water bottles, you're exposed by packaging and we're exposed by by processed foods, chemicals we can't pronounce, nothing we could ever make. These things all play a role. And so the everything and this is not to sound off the deep end. All right, you have to live and breathe in and in this world, but the if I'm able to. So what do I do? I I just made simple substitutions in my home.

I got rid of the plastic containers that I had. I got rid of some of the plastic cups and I bought glass. No big deal. Whatever else. But guess what? If I'm out and I'm thirsty and there's nothing else to drink and someone offers me a a water bottle, I'm not saying no way I'm going to die of thirst and sit here. I drink the water bottle in that moment, but 90% of the time I am not. I'm choosing not to do that. I'm making efforts that are conscientious. I'm looking at the ingredients. I'm making every stride to reduce that effect from a hormonal standpoint.

And I'm that's full circle back to the question as in part why are we seeing all of these shifts in our young adults? Um, and this this impact of stress, this impact of of our foods, it's been well documented with females going through early menarchy and so forth and and so forth. And we see the same thing affecting our men. We see the same thing for infertility for men is with the uh microplastics. >> Bro, what's the plant you would recommend for someone like myself? I've got a friend. But yeah, like uh that you would recommend for, you know, sitting in an office like this.

What's the plant you'd recommend? >> Well, first of all, are you asking the wrong somebody? Because I dropped out of I did not want to do plants and I did not want to deal with like rodents inside of biology. So, I took biochemistry >> so I could you and me both. That's why I'm asking you. >> Yeah. So, I >> put it in the chat if you guys know if you guys know that I should get. >> Yeah. Let it let us know, man. Cuz I definitely want to step my game up. >> I bought my grandfather had a green thumb, but it didn't pass to me.

Like, I buy plants, >> but they die. >> And I have a very I have a very black thumb. Okay, so black, >> I'm telling you. So, I I I got this plan. I was like, "Oh, man. This looks good. It's going to look all full and everything." All of a sudden, the leaves are dying and I'm going back and forth, but I'm committed to being I'm not giving up. I promise I want to make this plant flourish. >> Yo, props to Noel Gully. Noel Gully. Um, >> they say snake plants are so good with with cleaning the air. So, that's that's your answer to your question.

>> You gota you got to send her a t-shirt. Sister Tante, >> say that again. >> You got to send her a t-shirt. >> I gota send her a t-shirt. Yes. >> Email her at info living mana. What is it? >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I also we want to uh we're not done asking Dr. Batist questions but we just want to let you know where you can get the book selfish. So we're going to put that I think and we're going to put that on the chat and put um the link so that you will be able to get that. You can get it off of Amazon and you'll be able to go through uh the book on your time and take out all the amazing um information.

It's in the chat now. So please check that out. All the information that Dr. expertise um has in that book. Please um you have about uh 7 to 10 minutes to ask your question. So please put uh in the chat if you have a question for Dr. Batis. But this has been um already such an amazing um insightful discussion. So, for those who are just wondering, well, you've I mean, you've been very clear with the science and that a plan. >> Wait, could we have him could we have him talk about his conference? >> We're going to do that.

We're definitely going to do that. >> I just want to, you know, ask for people who are wondering, who are just joining us for the first time and never have heard of, you know, well, they've heard of a plant-based diet, but that it's so that it can be that impactful in their lives. um you know how like how what would you say where should they start if they're just hearing this for the first time about a plant-based diet? >> Yeah. So is that start learning more or start to experiment and try it out?

>> Both. >> Yeah. So one of the things that I would say is that I would choose if I'm just starting out. First of all, it's not as foreign as you think when you think of smoothies you might make at home and you put your blueberries and a little bit of uh maybe you put a little vegetables inside there, a little bit of of water or plant milk or so. That's a form of of of eating a plant-based meal that's there, a bowl and berries on when you think of a of a a salad. Now, I didn't say ranch soup with a few few pieces of lettuce.

I mean actual robust amount of of leaves and different different things that have a crunch factor, right? >> Um but one of the best ways I love to do it and encourage folks is using the bowl method. >> And so if you think of any of your types of restaurants to say, what kind of rice do you want? What type of grain? Okay, what type of skip over the meat and say, you know, what kind of bean do you want? What type of lettuce do you want? And go that route or potato bar or Italian bar. that becomes so easy and it gives especially for kids because what it does it empowers them that they're getting to make a choice as it relates to it having soups, smoothies and salads.

So that's an aspect in terms of adopting it. In terms of learning more about it, there are numerous resources that you can look at. I would probably say the most exhaustive a lot of the providers, the physicians and educators out there, we all have our different style. Um, but one I would say and I still support him. I ever I recommend all the time is Michael Greor on nutritionfacts.org. That's an easy site. Now, I'm gonna give it to you a little bit more kind of I'm not going to tell you you have to eat this, but I'mma give you the reasons why you want to eat it.

And so, you can sign up for my newsletter on drbatis.com. Dr. um Gregor has been at this for about 15 plus years. he's built up a huge catalog >> whether or not you're talking about mental health, if you're talking about heart disease, you're talking about rheumatologic disease, if you're saying, well, are eggs good or bad? Or, hey, can I have this? And he just is giving you the science on what it says. And that can be very helpful um as you're on this journey. And I think if you take a mindset >> and don't focus so much on what you can't have, >> but you flip it on what can you have, just focus on what you can have.

I'll never forget this young lady who I encountered. And so she was saying to me, "Well, do that. What should I eat?" I said, "Okay, I want you to start every meal with a large salad. I want you to do this, this, this, and this." And she I'm be I'm going to be too full to eat anything else. I just smiled at her. That's the point. >> I just smiled at her. You know, that's the point. >> There's another question, but before we go there, I want you to be able to pro promote your conference as well. And so, if we could put that in the link, can you talk about an upcoming conference that you have?

>> Yeah. And so I mean it's basically what they call like IRL I'm learning about in real life, you know. So we're bringing this right here >> in real life. And so one is is understanding the power that you have at your fingertips and the things that you do in your daily basis in terms of the food and offsetting disease. And we talk about that on day one and we go through that with experts around the country. On day two, we're really looking at how to apply in our communities, right? because no man's an island and we need to be able to help our neighbor out.

There's a great analogy or story from like the turn of the 20th century that there that fire uh stations used to be privatized. >> And so they quickly learned that guess what? If my neighbor's house is burning and they don't have they don't have a fireman coming to help them, that's going to spread to me. And so we see that perhaps in our neighborhoods and the foods that have become available at the schools our kids are at and the foods that they're eating. And so we want to enrich our our communities.

We want to empower people to understand that guess what? We're not telling you you can't. We're telling you you can. You have a right to live healthfully. And that's what the health conference is about. It's trying to establish a platform to go out into communities that are at risk and really helping them to understand that guess what, your health, yes, you you need to have insurance. Yes, you need to have take your medications. But there's a lot more that you can do on your own that can empower your health and that's what the help conference is about.

>> That's excellent. That's awesome. So if you want to know more about uh the help conference, it the link is in the chat. So please go there and learn more about that. Um there's a question here and if you well let's see what you know about it but I don't know but it's the question is from Britney. She's saying, "What's the best place to start if wanting to learn about the red light therapy?" >> Oh, that's great. That's a great question. Um, so there are some small pieces of information there. I'm not aware of a large aggregate.

The problem when it comes to red light, so I just actually looked this up for an upcoming episode I'm I'm creating about the infrared sauna, the red light. And so the red light is going to give you that warmth that's there and what it does in terms of your system. and so forth. There's the largest studies are probably outside the US when we're looking in the finish and and so forth. They they've done a fair amount of research as it relates to it. There's not a large aggregate. You can start to be honest with you.

I would typically Google red light and research, right? That's the first start that's there. I don't know of a great book and that's a fault on my own. So when I've done it, I've gone inside of the medical ledge. I've gone into PubMed, some other things when I pulled the data. So an easy way without telling you to go to PubMed, which is a kind of a scientist physician type of portal that's there is I would Google red light and and clinical research or outcomes. Those are simple search terms. There's Google Scholar which may give you some of the articles and say is this good?

Is it bad? Now if you're looking for more practical terms, then it's more of okay, how do I apply it? And you want to once again I would put that inside of a goo Google Scholar because you want as close to scientific approach that's validated as much as possible. So for instance when I was looking and reviewing my experience in red light I saw that 30 to 45 minutes is about the length of time I happen to do 45 minutes in that instance but I actually saw that well I've only been doing about once a month but actually you probably get the greatest benefit a couple times a week.

Well, I I don't have the bandwidth to kind of do it that amount of time, but you're looking at, okay, what exactly are the benefits going to be? Well, in my case, I saw that it relaxes the endothelium. It lowers the blood pressure. Um, that it helps stimulate the immune system too as well by that warmth and through a mechanism of action that's too complicated to get into right now. Um, but you start to kind of learn about these things and you realize, okay, there is science and so not everything that counts can be counted and not everything that can be counted counts and we understand that.

So we want to really make sure that we're looking at finding out first does it cause harm and we balance out can this be beneficial without number one cost number two adverse effects on me those are the those are and is there any level of validation that's my approach towards anything whether or not it's from your doctor or if it's inside the community. >> Yes. No thank you for that for that answer. I'm sure that you know gave them them some direction for red light therapy. I want to put the book back up where you can get it.

Selfish from Dr. Batis. So please let's put that in the link and we have time for one or two more questions. And so if you can get that in want to so say welcome. Somebody is saying greetings u from Pakistan. So we want to say back to you. Greetings. Thank you for being here um on our program this evening. >> But yes question. Oh, go ahead, Dr. White. >> Yeah. So, I got a quick question for you. I'm sure you probably haven't heard of Kachava. Have you heard of Kachava? >> Uh, yes, I have. >> Bro, man, what do you think of Kachava, man?

I live by it. >> my friend, I should say my friend. >> Yeah. No, Katava, when I read I've read through the ingredients and so forth. I think the one thing when it comes to all of the protein supplements um is that we have to one is we probably consume more protein than we need to is number one is what I would say across the board. Um I think though when you're on the go as you're a busy practitioner and you may not have time to sit down and have a full meal having that access of something on the go and you want the cleanest ingredients as as much as possible.

So once again, first thing, is it trusted? Is there any type of validation with it? Are any of the ingredients harmful? Then I'm looking at what is reported with it. So one of the things I'm looking at is I'm looking at what percent of the recommended daily allowance is it? Now, if it comes in at 2% 1%, well, how much is it really adding? Now, that's not Kachava State. I know that they theirs is pretty is pretty high there. and they have a an an assortment of different um uh quote unquote superfoods or or thoughts, things of that nature.

Um so it it's that's my approach when it comes to protein. So do I have protein supplements? I do. Do I take them on a regular basis? I don't. But I know just being fully transparent with the audience. I believe in being transparent when I'm in the Kath lab and I'm busy doing cases and I'm running around and I don't have time to really stop like that having something. So, number one, I have some carbohydrate nutrients, but I don't have time to chew. I already told you it's the powers in chewing.

Then that's an easy go-to for me to make sure I get it. But you want balance. I And so, I say that that's important. So, there is there are studies that tell us it improves your satiety so you're not so hungry and famished. But I want the only reason why I'm giving cautious caution, Dr. White, is because we live in a proteinaholic state. We're so focused on protein. And so I don't want someone to hear kacaba as a protein supplement and that I got to get a protein supplement, right? And that they're taking like, you know, two grams per kilogram or three grams as if they're playing in the NFL or basketball or anything else like that.

So that's only caution. But I think everything I've read about kachava specifically, I haven't I' it seems pretty solid, >> right? Yeah. I mean, it it's it's I wouldn't even call it a for me. It's not even a supplement. It replaces breakfast for me. Plus, I'll add some fruits, you know. >> Um, now I eliminated all that frying because, you know, you told my wife, "Throw away all our oil." >> But now, no more frying. No more my patakon. But, uh, but um, but yeah, so I I But thank you. Thank you for the feedback.

Thank you. >> I know. I love I love it. Now, you sprinkle some You got your You got your berries on there. You >> I toss in my blueberries. >> Yeah. You get some flax seeds, some chia, get your omegas on there, and you're cooking. cooking. Okay, >> that that sounds very good. Healthy and good. Since we're asking questions about what we do, I'm gonna ask you. So, what I take I drink matcha. I drink matcha tea >> for and I don't >> I typically don't put a sweetener in it. I mean, people can, but I don't put a sweetener in it.

So, what are your takes >> I mean, matcha is a a green tea, and green tea is so rich in antioxidants, so powerful. There's so much evidence supporting the benefits of green tea. Um, and so I I see it as a plus. Um, in terms of the the the consumption of of green tea, period. >> You worried about caffeine? >> I think it's a plus, too. It gives me very clean energy. We have one last question. What are your thoughts on fasting for days? 48. >> Are you asking 48 days, 72 days? Oh, hours. Sorry. 48 hours, 72 hours, 100 hours.

Okay, good. I'm glad it's hours and >> so I think fasting. Yeah, that fasting is ext that's that's an ancient art that has been validated in studies that we know that it's beneficial, right? And so the length of time that you fast may require you to have some physician supervision. The type of fasting that you do, there are many forms of it. So whether or not we talk about um uh uh intermittent fasting or timerestricted feeding, which most people are referencing, that's where you will only eat for a period of time of six hours or eight hours.

Well, that's natural, right? So you should stop eating at a certain period of time. And what's so powerful about it is that studies have shown you can eat the same identical thing >> in the morning versus the evening. Your body processes it completely different. >> Okay? And your metabolism will be shifted in terms of your blood glucose, the cholesterol absorption, everything of that sort. And so having the bulk of your meal early morning makes the most sense. Um there the heavier meals and so forth, carbohydrate rich meals.

Now, there was a study that brought up a lot of consternation about a year, a year year and a half ago, I forget exactly that was referencing that, hey, maybe there were worse cardiovascular outcomes from people who fasted. What they didn't characterize were the was the quality of food. Now, you can't fast and have burgers and fries and and and steak and and pizza and think that you're going to have an improved health outcome because you fasted during that period of time. So, the the quality of food still matters, but the time restriction restriction has been shown.

Now, Walter Longo has done a phenomenal job of doing uh USC has done tremendous research where what he's done is he's he's gotten the benefits of fasting over a five a fiveday period of time with a restricted caloric intake. >> So, you're still eating and you're drinking teas during this period of time. And he's shown an improved immune function, a decrease as far as an inflammation. He's shown like all the benefits in terms of diabetes. And so a cycle of five days at the beginning of every month.

I believe it's somewhere around um uh 900 calories into like 600 for about three or four days. I forget the exact amount. And he has a specific regimen. And so he balances it out. It's through a site called Prolong. But there are, you know, one can mimic that sort of pattern of what he does in your own life and the foods depending upon how aggressive you are. >> Yes. Um just I just want to say on top of that um just my experience with fasting. I've um done this throughout the years and stopped but I'm doing it again currently now but and I got this from a doctor and so you have to get it from your doctor.

Don't do what I do but do it you know what's safe for you. But I do do 36-hour fast once a week and I do that for inflammation and I can say that it does help to lower I have felt in my for me it has helped with my inflammation >> um issue because of my autoimmune disease but and it's >> it's not as hard as people think when I say 36 hours I'm like I'm sleeping for probably 16 of those 36 hours you know it's not like you're you know you're asleep so it's not as hard but >> um and then when you wake up the next morning I don't I feel like I'm not that I'm not hungry at all.

I don't have that hunger craving when you wake up the next morning. It's very it's just very interesting feeling. But >> yeah, >> so truth be told, I did a 21day fast years ago now. Time slips by and I'll be honest, it was a struggle the first couple of days and then I had this sense. >> It wasn't completely no water, no anything. It was a it was a just a green juice fast. Um, I had this sense where everything came quickly to me. >> Wow. >> Like I just felt like I was >> I felt like I just my mind opened up in that moment.

And so literally and the downside was it almost gave me a sense of like you inferior mortals, you know what's wrong with you? Not only that, but my senses exploded. my sense of smell, my hearing, everything just exploded. Um, and it was amazing. And I've struggled to get back to doing that again. And I make all sorts of excuses. Number one, it's a lengthy period of time because of work or this, that, and the other. But I have restricted and gone essentially um with without any processed foods. And I have very minimal processed foods anyway, but I've gone completely processed foods.

has given me a similar type of of feeling. So I think the one thing that we're that it's telling us is science, personal experience. These are anecdotal experiences from Dante and myself and not scientific research, but there is a plethora of scientific research which validates really what I described, what she's described, the process that happens in the body. And so it's something to kind of consider looking at. There's there are sites that do it under medical supervision. True North in Northern California.

There are several other sites that do it um as well. They found they've had phenomenal outcomes with hypertension with some cancers that they've reported inside of literature. Um and so there there is something to it. Now if you go and you talk to your doctor about this, if you talked to me about 18 years ago, I would have just shook my head at you and said, "What are you talking about? Don't listen to those crazy people over there." And it's not I'm not saying to abandon anything traditional, but what I'm saying is that there is something to the body reset.

And there is growing science as we're reporting more and more about the power of a lot of these modalities. >> Well, well, when you're fasting, one of the things you're doing is you're not feeding precancerous cells. >> Absolutely. Th this is why it's so powerful to eat a little less than what what would fill you is because you know you you don't want all of your cells fed in a sense but no wonderful I find my energy goes way up because um my body is not having to digest food. >> I have a lot of energy by the end of the day which is great.

We have to take this last question. We have to take it because it is my sister in love Veronica Myers. She has >> and so she is asking does matcha have as much caffeine as coffee. I just want to say I don't know the answer to that. I'm just assuming maybe not as much as coffee because I could never drink coffee. It gave me the jitters but I can drink matcha. So but maybe >> so I don't I don't know the actual milligram amount that's there and I think it but there will be a lot of factors that will come into play.

So my initial gut response and it's without me recalling specific numbers is that it's it's less than coffee but realize with coffee you're going to have espresso you're going to have different brews and types a blonde different ones that are there that will have different levels of caffeine and so we know that there is a a max amount of for caffeine that will cause harm. So, here's the thing. Studies so far, for the most part, and I don't want to speak out both sides of my mouth, have not really validated the harmful component of caffeine from coffee beans or from green tea.

>> Well, they've noted the harmful components are what we add to it, the sugar, the cream, and so forth in in the amounts. >> Now, on a practical level, that's not validated by research. I always like to separate this. I have not found research to validate this. My concern for individuals is just what you mentioned, Tante, is about the jitters, about the heart palpitations, the skip beats. I I'm concerned that what happens when you have caffeine is that you you pee, right? You urinate, you're losing free water, which may lead to dehydration to some degree, electrolyte instability, propagate arrhythmias um for individuals, but that has not been validated consistently in research trials um for me to say it.

I also don't like the thing that happens less so with uh those who consume matcha and green tea. I haven't seen it documented. Doesn't say it doesn't exist. I haven't come across that data. >> Is the withdrawal effect. Is it when I don't like from like ca uh coffee and caffeine and so forth. Um it's a withdrawal that if you don't have it, you have a blaring headache. You get grumpy and irritable. I have not seen that play out from what I've I've found from matcha and green tea in the same way I have from c uh coffee and then obviously all these energy drinks just as a side note this is harmful to your body science has told me this completely um and it will wind you up with not me I'm a plumber of the heart but you're going to see one of my colleagues who are electricians of the heart is what will end up happening >> yes >> profound >> well this This time has flown by.

Um, Dr. Patise, thank you uh for for stopping by and spending this time with us. We are very thankful. I know our audience is thankful. Want to put up one more time the book Selfish where you can get it on. We're going to put that link up so you can get that on Amazon and also the link for the help conference so you can get more information about that as well. So, we want you guys to check all of that out. It's always fun to do the program with you uh Dr. White and Dr. Batist. Thank you again to our viewing audience.

We will see you in two weeks. Uh we're going to take another break. We'll see you in two weeks and we will be right back here with you for Mental Health Monday. Have a good evening. >> Thank you again, Dr. Batist. >> All right. Thank you guys.