Hey guys, Pastor Myers here. I want to invite you to check out this very powerful message entitled The Devil's Advocate. And uh it's going to reveal some very powerful things about the law of God and the grace and mercy of Christ. So check it out and be blessed. By faith, Noah trusted God and constructed an ark for the deliverance of his family. By faith, Abraham was willing to sacrifice Isaac, his only son, believing God would still fulfill his promises. By faith, Moses chose to be mistreated with the people of God rather than enjoy sin's fleeting pleasure.

By faith, God's chosen nation crossed the Red Sea on dry ground and praised him as it swallowed up the Egyptians. By faith, Rahab the prostitute escaped destruction because she welcomed the spies in peace. Time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, David, and the prophets. By faith, they administered justice. shut the mouths of lions, quenched raging fire. But others were imprisoned, murdered, and wandered in deserts, mountains, and openings in the earth. We are surrounded by this great cloud of witnesses.

So get rid of every weight, of every sin, and run, run with endurance the race set before us. Keep your eyes fixed on Jesus. He is the champion and guide of our faith. For promised joy, he endured the cross, thought nothing of its shame, and having risen again, has been handed his deserved glory at the right hand of the throne of God. [Music] Title of the sermon once again is the devil's advocate and it is subtitled understanding justification by faith and its counterfeit. And there are many counterfeits.

We're only dealing with one counterfeit of justification by faith today. What does it mean to be the devil's advocate? Let's go to the book of John 8:41. Beginning with verse 41, Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees. And here's what he says. He says, "You do the deeds of your father." Then said they to him, "We be not born of fornication. We have one father, even God." Jesus said unto them, "If God were your father, you would love me. For I proceeded forth and came from God. Neither came I of myself, but he sent me.

Why do you not understand my speech? Even because you cannot hear my word. You are of your father, the devil, and the lust of your father you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. And because I tell you the truth, you believe me not. Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do you not believe me? He that is of God heareth my words, or heareth God's words.

You therefore hear them not because you are not of God. Okay, this is Jesus rebuking the religious leaders of his day. And what he says to them is is really quite amazing. He says you're doing the work of your father. He's saying you are advocating for your father. Now you may believe that you are following God, but you're actually advocating for your father, which he says is the devil. If it was possible for religious people to advocate for the devil in Jesus's day, how much more do you think it is possible as as the devil has increased in power as time goes on?

As as as wickedness has increased, how much more likely do you think it is? How much more possible do you think it is that that those in these times who who claim to be followers of Christ, claim to be followers of God, are actually advocating for the devil, being the devil's advocate. If it was possible then, it is possible now. But I want to let you know as harsh as that sounds and I believe that there are many many so-called so-called Christians people who say I'm a follower of God who are actually advocating on behalf of the devil even though there are many there is good news because the Bible says in Revelation 3 19 note what the scripture says as many as I love I rebuke and chasen be zealous us therefore and repent.

Now, who does God love? John 3:16 tells us that God so loved the world. Amen. So, if God loves the world, and if the world is wicked, uh we know that that if God loves the world, that would include even well-meaning Christians who are also advocating for the enemy without realizing that they're doing it. And why is this good news? Because God still offers mercy to those who know not what they do. Are y'all with me so far? So if you're watching this and and you know you may not uh uh have all understanding of the Bible, you may learn today, whoa, I have been a an advocate for the enemy.

I didn't even know it. If you are learning that today about yourself, guess what? God is not casting you off. He has brought you here to hear this message today. Because he loves you. Because he loves you. Right? No. Not Notice with me. Notice with me. Acts 17:30. The Bible says, "At the times of this ignorance, God wked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent." You see to it it for us to set the foundation rightly. You need to understand that God winks at ignorance. If you don't know better, God is winking at that.

But when he brings light, he expects you to respond. Amen. That's a fair God. That's a loving God. That's a just God. You see the scales on either side of me. the scales of justice, right? God is a God that is just. And so if God is a God that is just, we want to make sure that we are in no way advocating for the devil. The question for us today is, is it possible in ignorance to actually be the devil's advocate? The first thing that we need to do, beloved, is to to to to no longer be ignorant. If I if I want to make sure that I am not advocating for the devil, then I need to know what does the devil advocate?

What does he advocate? If I know what he advocates, then I will know stay away from that thing. Why? cuz I don't want to be what everyone the devil's advocate. So what we're going to do today beloved is we're going to look at several things that the devil is advocating and see if you are advocating for these things too. You are the devil's advocate. But again, praise God, you're not the devil. You're just ignorantly being his advocate. And guess what? God offers mercy to all of those who at one time advocated the devil's lies, advocated the devil's errors.

So come on, what is the devil advocating? Well, we can get a few clues just by looking at scripture. Let's go to 2 Thessalonians chapter 2:3. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2:3. And I want you to notice what the ESV version of the Bible says regarding this verse. It says, "Let no one deceive you in any way, for that day will not come, that day meaning the second coming of Christ, unless the rebellion comes first and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction." Here's what the KJV version says.

Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come except there come a falling away first and the man of sin be revealed, the son of predition. So what I want you to know, beloved, is that in the ESV, it's the man of lawlessness. In the KJV, it's the man of sin. And what I'm simply showing you here, beloved, is that Satan, what we can know from this verse is that Satan advocates lawlessness. Put that word in the chat for me, please. Lawlessness. Satan advocates for lawlessness. Therefore, I know that if I am advocating lawlessness, I am in essence advocating for the devil.

So the question now becomes what is lawlessness? What is sin? And again note what the Bible tells us in first John chapter 3 and verse4. Whosoever committeth sin transgresses also the law for sin is the transgression of the law. Sin is the transgression of the law. So again we are clearly seeing here laid out that if I am advocating lawlessness or sin which is transgression of the law. I am actually advocating I am actually being his advocate. But I need you to understand this a little bit deeper.

Right? We got to go a little bit deeper because there are many Christians who will say, "Oh, no. You know, I think everything ought to be good, but let's hold on and slow down for a moment." Note with me what the Bible says about Lucifer in heaven. In Ezekiel 28:1 15, the Bible says of Lucifer, "Thou was perfect in thy ways from the day that thou was created till iniquity was found in thee." That's the same word for lawlessness. It's the same word for sin. So we see that Lucifer, the devil, Satan, was an advocate of iniquity, an advocate of lawlessness.

Now, while he was advocating lawlessness in heaven, note what else the Bible says about him in Isaiah 14:12. The Bible says here, "How art thou fallen from heaven, oh Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground which did weaken the nations? For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the size of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the most high.

Come back with me for a moment. Isaiah chapter 14 lets us know that Lucifer claimed that he could be like God. Not only like God in power but like God in holiness because God is holiness. So Lucifer was in essence saying I can be holy like God and I don't need a law telling me how to do it. This is how he deceived onethird of the angels. He did not deceive a third of the angels by inviting them to be evil. He was promoting a principle. He was listen to me. He was advocating something. And the thing he was advocating was I can determine for myself what is right and what is wrong.

I can determine and decide for myself what is right, what is wrong, and I don't need a law to do it. Now, please note, at the same time, the Bible speaks of the angels in heaven who did keep God's commandments. Notice what the Bible says. Psalm 103:20, "Bless the Lord, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word." So clearly we see here that there were angels in heaven that did God's commandments, that do God's commandments, and there were angels in heaven, Lucifer included, that came to the conclusion that they did not need to keep God's law.

Are y'all with me so far? So then, so then what Lucifer was was was this idea of I can be holy without a law. I don't need anybody, including God's law, telling me what is right and what is wrong. Notice with me something else that Lucifer was advocating. Ezekiel 28:16, the Bible says, "By the multitude of thy merchandise, they have filled the midst of thee with violence," speaking of Lucifer, "and thou hast sinned. Therefore, I will cast thee as profane out of the mountain of God." Now, note, let me read it again.

By the multitude of thy merchandise, they have filled the midst of thee with violence. Now, what does that mean, filled the midst of thee with violence? This word filled, the the Hebrew word fulfilled here, it means simply to be full of, to accomplish, to confirm, to consecrate, to to be at an end, to be expired, uh to be fenced, to be filled, to fulfill, to flow, fullness, furnish, gather. Okay. So basically the word describes being filled up. Lucifer was filled up. Now why is this significant to understand?

Well, because the same word is used in Genesis 6:1 when the Bible says the earth was also corrupt before God and the earth was filled with violence. We know that when the earth became filled with violence that they had crossed a line of no return. In essence then we know that Lucifer eventually crossed a line of no return. His cup Clint iniquity was filled. The cup was filled meaning there was no turning back. There was no there was no point of return for Lucifer. Now why is this significant? Because in the book of Matthew chapter 18, Jesus lays out a principle which we must understand in the context that Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.

He changes not. He operates the same way regardless of who you are. And notice what it says in Matthew 18 verse 21. The Bible says here, "Then came Peter to him and said,"Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him till seven times?" Jesus saith unto him, "I say not unto thee until seven times, but until 70* 7." Okay, so let's let's come back for a moment. It is Jesus's mode of operation to offer forgiveness, to offer mercy. That's who he is. That is who God is. Therefore, we can know that mercy had been extended to Lucifer.

However, we can also know that Lucifer rejected that mercy. You see, in order to obtain mercy, it would have required Lucifer to repent. So, please put a one in the chat. You need to get this point very clearly. In order for Lucifer to get mercy, it would have required a spirit of repentance. Man, I really messed up. Lord, I'm sorry. We don't know how that would have played out. But here's what we do know. Lucifer never repented. Okay? So, you don't want to repent. You're not going to you're not going to repent from your sin or in other words, repent from your lawlessness.

Okay. Well, if you're not going to repent from your lawlessness, then you have to leave heaven. And what happens when God says to Lucifer, "You have to leave heaven." Well, let me show you what happens. If we go to Isaiah chapter 14, where the Bible says, "For thou has said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the size of the north." What I want you to understand here is that Lucifer wanted heaven.

He wanted heaven, but he was not willing to repent. He was not willing to repent from his lawlessness. But he wanted heaven. And he wanted heaven so bad that that in Revelation chapter 4 or chapter 12, the Bible says verse 7, the Bible says that there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and the dragon fought and his angels. So then please follow this. Number one, Lucifer was advocating that he could be holy without God's law. And number two, he was advocating, I will not repent, but should have access to heaven anyway.

All right, Joe, let me repeat that. Lucifer was advocating, I can be holy without a law telling me how to be holy. And number two, I I am not going to repent, but I deserve heaven anyway. I should get into heaven any I should have heaven. He was already in heaven. I should have heaven even though I'm unwilling to repent. All right, are y'all following me? Do y'all catch this? Therefore, therefore, Lucifer's principle, what Lucifer pushes is the idea that holiness is possible, determining it for yourself.

You don't need a law telling you what holiness is. And number two, he will advocate the principle that repentance for breaking the law is not necessary. and you should still have access to heaven. Okay, so let's lay that to the side for a moment. And now I want you to we're going to go on another journey, but just follow along carefully. So let's let's let's let's just put that to the side for a second. And now we're going to go to the book of Genesis. And in the book of Genesis, we have the creation account where God creates the earth in six days and he rests on the seventh.

Um, in that creation account, there is something missing. There is no discussion of the creation of angels. What does this tell us? The 7-day creation did not include God's creation of angels. Angels were created way before the creation of the earth. And you have to understand that in order to understand how earth gets involved in this conflict that originated way before earth began and originated in heaven. So so this rebellion Lucifer's rebellion began before the creation of man. A and when we understand that we can now understand a very a peculiar verse in Ezekiel chapter 28:1 17.

Notice what the Bible says here. Ezekiel 28:17, "Thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty," speaking of Lucifer. "Thou has corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness. I will cast thee to the ground. I will lay thee before kings that they may behold thee." God is telling Lucifer that I'm going to lay you before a group of kings. We don't know who those are. Who are the who is this group of kings that God was going to lay before Lucifer to be judged? to be condemned? Well, we find the answer when we look at a principle God laid out for the children of Israel in the Old Testament.

Notice with me Deuteronomy 19:16, the Bible says, "If a false witness rise up against any man to testify against him that which is wrong, then both the men between whom the controversy is shall stand before the Lord, before the priests and the judges, which shall be in those days. And the judges shall make diligent inquisition. And behold, if the witness be a false witness, and has testified falsely against his brother, then shall you do unto him, as he had thought to have done unto his brother, so shalt thou put away the evil from among you.

So what we see here is God lays out a principle that whenever a controversy rises between two people or two parties, there must be a third neutral party, a jury that would be responsible for judging between the two. When you understand this, you will also come to understand the amazing conclusion that when Paul writes in 1 Corinthians chapter 6:2, speaking of the redeemed saints, when Paul writes these words, "Do you not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters?

Know you not that we the saints shall judge angels? All right. One of the reasons that God created man, one of the reasons man was created was that they were to serve as the jury, as the judges that would ultimately condemn the devil and his angels. That's why, beloved, if we are the jury, then how crazy would it be that people on the jury are being the devil's advocate? Do I need to say that again? If we are the jury, if God has called mankind to be the jury, then how crazy would it be if the devil could get the jury to actually become the devil's by promoting his principles that he was pushing in heaven.

How insane would that be? How ingenious would that be for Satan to lead the very jurors, the very ones who claim to follow Christ to push for his theories. All right, come on. Let let let's check this out. Come with me to the book of Romans, chapter 13. Romans chapter 13. The Bible says, "Owe no man anything but to love one another. For he that loveth one another has fulfilled the law. For this sh thou shalt not kill, thou commit adultery. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness.

Thou shalt not covet. And if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Verse 10, love workketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. In heaven, beloved, the law was very simply known as love. That's what the law was in heaven. You say there was a law in heaven. Yes, that law was the law of love. It was just a simple word, love. Now, why is this significant? Because in 1 John 4:8 and verse 16, the Bible says God is love.

So, hold on. Watch this. If the law, if the fulfilling of the law is love and God is love, oh man, do y'all understand this? If the law is love and God is love, your attack upon the law is an attack upon God. Should I say that again? If the law is love and God is love, then the law is a is the very reflection of who God is. So when Lucifer attacked the law in heaven, he was attacking God. He was attacking love. This very same law of love was written on the hearts of Adam and Eve. How do we know that?

Because the Bible says in Romans chapter 2:14, "For when the Gentiles," this talking about the Gentiles, y'all, not talking about Adam and Eve, talking about the Gentiles. For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law, are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts. Stop right there. If sinful Gentiles thousands of years after the creation of Adam and Eve have remnants of the law of God written on their hearts, do you not think that when Adam and Eve were created, God had written the law on their hearts?

Absolutely. It was the law of love. That's the law that was written on their hearts. Are y'all with me so far? And then the Bible says this in Genesis 2:1. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day, God ended his work which he had made. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it because in it he had rested from all the work all the his work which God created and made.

God gave man the Sabbath as a sign or symbol that the earth was good. That the earth was was was in harmony with the state of heaven. Are y'all with me so far? The reason God gave man the Sabbath, in fact, notice with me Mark chapter 27. The Bible is Jesus speaking here. Jesus said unto them, "The Sabbath was made for man." Just stop right there. Just stop right there. You can read and not man for the Sabbath. When God created the world, he didn't make the Sabbath and then made man to No, no, no, no.

He made man and then made the Sabbath as a gift to the earth. this gift. When you make something for someone, it's a gift. If someone gives you a gift, you keep the gift. You treasure the gift. And this gift was a sign that heaven and earth were in harmony. They were on the same page. Heaven is good. Earth is good. The only way this sign could be broken is if Adam and Eve gave dominion over to Satan. If they listened to the enemy, then the state of rest on earth, the state of peace on earth would be broken.

So we know that sin was a transgression of the law. When Adam and Eve sinned, they transgressed the law of love. Now watch this. After they transgressed the law of love, you know what Satan's next step was? His next step was to lead them to the after they ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, which would bring death because of their disobedience, Satan wanted to lead them to the tree of life. so that they could eat and live forever as transgressors of the law. Hey, watch the principle.

I can eat, I can disobey and still live forever. I can disobey and still have access to the tree of life. This is what Satan was advocating. I can disregard the law of God and I should still have the right to eat from the tree of life. I should still have the right to access the things of God. So, Genesis chapter 3 tells us, the Bible says, "And the Lord God said, behold, the man has become as one of us to know good and evil, lest he put forth his hand and also take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever.

Therefore, the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden to till the ground from whence he was taken." So he drove out the man and placed at the east of the garden of Eden cherubams and a flaming sword which turned every way to keep the way of the tree of life. All right. So what we see here is the entire plan of salvation unfolding before us. What we see here is is is Satan's principle, what Satan was advocating unfolding before us. You don't have to obey God. Adam and Eve, you can be like God without obeying him.

You don't need to obey his law. You can be like him. And then once you're like him, once you've disobeyed, you can still live forever. You can still have access to the things of God. You can still eat of the tree of life. We know that these two principles are principles advocated by the devil. If we find ourselves advocating those principles, therefore, we are being the devil's advocate. And I will show you how. I will show you how. But the first thing I want you to see, beloved, is is we are about to watch the process of redemption unfold right before our eyes.

Because in Genesis chapter 3:7, what I'm what I'm about to show you is that the very first thing that we must do to receive the grace, the mercy, to receive the to receive the the the salvation that God has laid out for us is what? Can y'all put it in the chat? What is the very first thing that must happen? We must repent. Very simple, y'all. Repent. The thing that Satan said, "I'm not doing" is the thing that we must do. Repent. Let me show you. In Genesis 3:7, the Bible says here, Genesis 3:7, uh, "And the eyes of them both were open, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.

And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden." And the Lord God called unto Adam, and said unto him, "Where art thou?" And he said, "I heard thy voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself." I was afraid. I was afraid. Now, now when you've read this verse before, you said to yourself, "Oh, they were terrified and they ran away.

They were afraid." However, however, this word afraid, it literally means, let's go to the screen. It literally means to fear. Now, watch this. morally to revere causitatively to frighten to be afrighted afraid dreadful to put in fear to be had in reverence hold on a minute wait a minute Psalm 86:1 says teach me thy way oh Lord I will walk in thy truth unite my heart to fear thy name may I suggest to you that the reason that Adam and Eve hid themselves from God is because they reverenced him enough to know we messed up.

We did something wrong. We are ashamed. We are sorrowful for what we've done. What do y'all think? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. They were afraid. But they were afraid because they understood the holiness of God. They reverenced God. They realized they had done something wrong. And beloved, that in that reverence was their repentance. They weren't bold like, "Yeah, God, what? We did it." They were afraid. They were They were like, "We messed up." And the fact that they acknowledged that they messed up. Acknowledged that they had done wrong.

Then God comes to them in the garden. And watch what the Bible says. Unto Adam also, and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skin and clothe them. Do y'all see this? This is beautiful, y'all. Here you have the entire process of salvation laid out. We admit that we have done wrong. We're not going to hide anything. We're not going to We We have done wrong. God comes to them. What'd you do? She made me do it. Says to Eve, "What'd you do?" the devil made me do it. But they acknowledge their wrong.

They they are repentant. And what does God do? He says, "All right, I'm going to cover you. I'm going to a an animal is going to be sacrificed and that animal skin is going to cover you. There you have the entire plan of salvation. I am sorry for what I've done. If I have the chance to eat from the tree again, I would never do it again." But God says, "But we're just going to put that sword around the tree of life." So watch this then. In their repentance, in their acknowledgment that yes, we have done wrong, God says, I grant you mercy.

You see how easy that is? But the devil doesn't want it that. He's going to try to do everything to make you not think that you need to See, in the very next chapter, we're about to be introduced to two worshippers which parallel the principles of justification by faith versus justification of sin. All right, so let's say that again. Put that in the chat for me just so that I'll make sure you got it. In the very next chapter, we're about to be introduced to a man named Abel and his brother whose name is Cain.

These are two different worshippers. They are both worshiping God, but one represents justification by faith, meaning I acknowledge that I have done wrong and I acknowledge that the wages of sin is death and I will bring God what he asked for, what he demonstrated back in the garden. That's Abel. But Cain says, "Nah, I'm gonna justify sin. I'm gonna determine for myself what I will bring God. At least I'm bringing him something." He ought to be thankful. So, so Cain substitutes for his worship. He substitutes something that God has not asked for.

And he says, "Here's what I'm going to give you, and you should be satisfied with that because I determined that this is feasible for me." justification of sin. And when you justify sin, beloved, you're being an advocate of the devil. You are serving as the devil's advocate. This is what's happening. once again, how do you tell if you are worshiping while being the devil's advocate? And there are three things I want you to understand here. Three things, three ways to know that you are worshiping, you're you're that while you're worshiping God, you're actually being the devil's advocate.

And that is if I advocate the things the devil advocates. So again, we're going to break this down, but in more detail. Number one, remember the devil advocates that he didn't need a law to be holy like God and therefore will not keep it. See, the Bible says in 1 John 2:3, "Hereby we do know that we know him, that is God, if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know God, and keepeth not his commandments, is an advocate for the devil. Do y'all catch this? Lucifer was against the law of God in heaven.

And now Jesus himself, writing, speaking to his apostles, says, "He that sayth, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. Verse five, but who so keepeth his word in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. See that if I am advocating if I am saying that I don't need to keep God's commandments then I am then let me stop saying I am then you are advocating the devil's lie. You are being the devil's advocate by arguing that we don't have to keep God's law.

You are arguing the very same thing Lucifer argued in heaven. And this is why John 8:44 says, "You are of your father, the devil." Jesus speaking, "The lust of your fathers will you do." He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he speak of the lie, he speaks of speakth of his own. for he is a liar and the father of it. Now watch this y'all. Check this out. When Christians say that the Ten Commandments is no longer necessary to be kept, you are getting rid of the law that that condemns Lucifer as a liar and a murderer.

Let me say that again. You are literally advocating for the devil. You're saying, "Wait a minute. If if the Ten Commandments no longer exist, then why should Lucifer still be punished for being a liar and a murderer? If the law no longer exists, then Lucifer himself should be free from condemnation. Because Lucifer is in trouble. Why? Because he's lying. He's stealing. He's killing. He's murder. Come on. Y'all know the marijuana laws, right? Marijuana illegal. 5 years ago, 10 years ago, people in jail for selling marijuana.

And now the government says, "Hey, marijuana is no longer that law is done away with. Marijuana in certain places no longer legal." So what happens? What happens to those people who were in jail for selling marijuana? Oh, now we got to let them go. Now we got to, you know, commute their sentences because it's no longer breaking the law. So if the law of God, beloved, if the Ten Commandments is done away with, you are literally to set Satan free. Come on, I'm not making this up. Romans 3:1 19. Now we know that whatsoever things the law saveth, it's safe to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world become guilty before God.

The whole world is guilty before God because the law condemns them as being guilty. Thou shalt not lie. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not covet. Thou shalt not take uh um dishonor mother and father. All of these things declare the world as guilty. But the Christian who says, "Hey, that law was done away with at the cross, what you're saying is the whole world should now go free. The whole world shall not, including Satan himself. Why, beloved? Because, check this out.

In Romans 4:15, the Bible says, "Because the law workketh wrath. Where there is no law, there is no transgression." So, if the law is done away with, then Satan isn't guilty of anything. If the law is done away with, then the world is no longer guilty of anything. And you can't say, "Oh, well, the law doesn't stand for me, but it stands for other people." No. Either the law is done away with or it's not. If it's done away with, then Satan himself has access to heaven. And guess what Satan's pointing to to prove his point?

Look at the Christians. God. They are arguing. They are arguing my very point. You should let me back into heaven. You see, beloved, in in you wanting to get into heaven without keeping the law, you're you're paving the way for Satan's argument toward God. I should get back into heaven. I don't keep the law, but I should if you letting them in. Now, Satan knows that's not that's not the way it goes. And God knows that's that that's not the way it goes. But his own people advocating for Satan's argument is for Satan's principle.

Is Satan saying, "I'm telling you, universe, I'm telling you, I am right and God is wrong." Even his own people are advocating my cause. The Bible says in Romans 14:15, we just read it, "The law workketh wrath. Well, why is that significant? Because in Revelation 14:19 14:9, the Bible says, "And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, if any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God."

Stop. If the law workketh wrath, and at the end of time those who receive the mark of the beast receive the wrath of God, is it not because the wrath of God is poured out on those who broke the law, those who disregarded the law? What do you think? We don't have to guess. All we need to do is look at the very next verse. That was verse 10. Look at verse 12. Verse 12 says, "Here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and have the have the faith of Jesus." So those who receive the mark, whatever that is, receive the wrath of God.

Meaning the mark has something to do with breaking the law of God. And then the very next verse, here's the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God. Do y'all see this? That's one. Number two. Number two, the argument that the cross abolished the commandments of God is advocating the devil's li. You're advocating on behalf of the devil. Let me break it down for you very quickly. This argument, let's go to this to the slide. This argument that the cross abolish the ten commandments is a lie from the devil.

It is merchandise from the devil that many Christians have bought. Let me break this down for you. Ignorantly bought, may I add? The Bible says God is love. Romans 13:10, we just read it. Love workketh no ill to his neighbor. But therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. If God is love and and the law is love, when the law was broken, love was broken. Let let me re let me rephrase that. When the law was broken, love was broken. Now, the only way that the law could be fulfilled would be through love.

Only love could fulfill the broken law of love. Yeah. Yeah. Did y'all catch that? So, so if love is the fulfilling of the law, it's because when you break the law, you're breaking love. When Cain killed Abel, that was an act of lovelessness. Every act of breaking the law, any of the commandments, is an act of breaking love. Breaking love for God, first four commandments. Breaking love for neighbor, last six commandments. So only by love could the law be fulfilled. Did y'all catch that? Only by love could the law of love be fulfilled.

Hey, love is broken. How do we fix it? Glue? No. Um, uh, let's see. Uh, do we need a saw? No. There's only one thing that can fulfill or fill back or fix the broken law, and that is love. Now, watch this. According to John 15:13, the Bible says, "Greater love has no man than this, than a man laid down his life for his friends." So in other words, for this law of love which was equal to God himself, for that law to be fixed, not done away with, fixed, restored. It had to be done through an act of love equal to God himself, equal to the law itself.

Now I need y'all to understand something here because see this is why an angel could not die for mankind because the law existed before angels. Since the law is an expression of the person of God, every angel created after God, every angel God created, none of if God said to an angel, "Go and die for them." You know what? You know what that would prove? God is not love. Cuz you're sending a lesser being to go die for someone else. That's why even some people struggle to understand, well, God sent his son, you know, why didn't God come himself?

God did come himself. The Bible says again, "Greater love has no man than this, that a man laid down his life for his friends." God laid down his life. This, beloved, demonstrates that Jesus was not brought forth in in eternity sometime in the past. If as long as God exists, the law existed. And as long as the law existed, God the law and God are equal. Meaning the one who had to die for that broken law had to be equal with the law. Jesus did not come sometime later after the father. Because if he did, if Jesus is in any sense in his pre-incarnate state lesser than God, then God is not love.

because God sent someone less than himself to do something that required the greatest act possible. So then what this demonstrates, beloved, is that the cross of Calvary magnifies, demonstrates the holiness of God's law. It does not get rid of it. It fills it up. It demonstrates this is what love is. So when Christians turn around and argue, "Yeah, the cross, man, it got rid of the law." Again, if there is no law, then Satan has every right to get back into heaven. And those who argue that the law of God is no longer relevant and needed are in fact arguing for Satan's return to the kingdom of God.

And and every wicked person who has ever been condemned and died, they are arguing what Satan's arguing. We all should be back in heaven. The third way to advocate for the devil, I will not repent, but I should still have heaven. I will not repent, but I should still have heaven. We're almost done, y'all. We're almost done. We're going to cover this third of the way, then we're going to wrap this up. I will not repent, but I still should have heaven. You see in Ezekiel 18 and:30 the Bible says therefore I will judge you oh house of Israel everyone according to his ways say the Lord God and then he says this repent and turn yourselves from all your all all your transgressions so iniquity shall not be your ruin.

What is repentance? Repentance is turning away from your transgression. Transgression of what? of the law. True repentance is admitting that you were wrong in something and it is turning away from that repeatedly wrong act. The Bible says in Psalm 51, "Have mercy upon me, oh God, according to thy loving kindness, according to unto the multitude of thy tender mercies. Blot out my transgressions, wash me from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me.

Isaiah 1:16, "Wash yourselves, make you clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Cease to transgress from the law." Repentance is turning away from lawbreaking. Did y'all catch it just now? Repentance is turning away from the act of continually breaking God's law. This is why James 2:10 tells us, "For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all. For he that said, do not commit adultery, one of the ten commandments, said also, do not kill, one of the ten commandments."

Now, if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou become a transgressor of the law. What God is telling us here is if you're guilty of breaking any of the ten commandments, you're guilty of breaking all of them. And if you're guilty of breaking all of them, you need to repent for breaking But if the devil could somehow get us to think that some of these commandments don't need repenting from are not that important, no longer stand. Therefore, I don't need to, nor am I going to ever repent for breaking this commandment, You understand?

When you do this, you're advocating the very same thing that Satan advocated. Satan refused to repent in heaven. What wrong? Hadn't done anything wrong. What wrong? Daniel 7:25. Daniel 7:25 tells us exactly Satan, what Satan would seek to do. He shall speak great words against the most high. shall wear out the saints of the most high and think to change times and laws. So, if we know from Daniel 7:25 that the devil's forces that the devil's pe the devil's uh uh plan is to change God's law. If we advocate that same thing and say yes, God's law has been changed.

God's law has been done away with. God's law no longer stands. If if we do that, beloved, we are in fact advocating on behalf of the devil. Because in order to acknowledge that you've broken the law, you have to also acknowledge that the law is holy and good. That the law still stands. Romans 7:12 says, "Wherefore the law is holy and the commandment holy and just and good. Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid, but sin that it might appear sin. In other words, Paul says, the purpose of the commandments is to show me my sinfulness so that I can repent of all that sin and then not be saved by my works, but be covered by the righteousness of Christ.

But it it is all dependent upon my willingness to admit that I have broken the law. Admit that I have broken the Sabbath. Admit that I have broken the commandment that says, "Thou shalt not have any graven images, or thou shalt not lie, or thou shalt not steal." But if there's any one of these laws that I'm just like, "Yeah, I don't have to admit to that one, but I still want heaven." Guess what? The repentance is not complete. You say, "Pastor, what about the millions of people who are Christians who who didn't know about that commandment?"

If they didn't know, God winks in their ignorance. They will be in heaven. Praise God. Because God is a just and merciful God. But there are many Christians today who are teaching that the law of God no longer stands. Which means you're in essence saying Lucifer should have every right to get back into heaven. Not only are they teaching this, but what they really are trying to teach and really are trying to say is that the Sabbath is no longer binding on Christians and will use all kinds of verses in the scriptures taken out of context to argue the devil's point.

What? That the law of God was changed. That the law of God was abolished. I'm not talking about the ceremonial law. That's why we don't sacrifice animals anymore or give offerings, meat offerings and drink offerings. We're talking about the Sabbath. Now, I see this this is how good God is. He puts two prophecies in the Bible, one in the Old Testament and one in the New to show no matter what anyone tells you, just know that I have not changed these laws. My disciples have not changed these laws.

No matter what you how the scripture is misinterpreted, know that if the law is an expression of me and I change not. If I change not, the law changes not. Why? Because God is love and love is a fulfilling of the law. And if God is the same yesterday, today, and forever and changes not, then the law is the same yesterday and today forever and change is not. To change the law is to change God. And if God changes, then God is not perfect. And if God is not perfect, then Lucifer's argument is right.

Hey, I should be God. I should sit on the throne of the most high. I should be worshiped as God. I will be like the most high but better. Isaiah 56. We are almost done. Isaiah 56. Notice the Old Testament prophecy pointing to Gentiles keeping the Sabbath under the new covenant. The Bible says, "Thus sayith the Lord, keep ye judgment and do justice, for my salvation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed. Blessed is the man that doeth, and the Son of man that layeth hold on it, that keepeth the Sabbath from polluting it, and keepeth his hand from doing any evil.

Neither let the son of the stranger, that's the Gentile, that has joined himself to the Lord, speak, saying, "The Lord has utterly separated me from his people." Neither let the unic say, Behold, I'm a dry tree. For thus sayith the Lord unto the unic that keepeth my Sabbath, and choose the things that please me, and take hold of my covenant. The only covenant open to Gentiles, beloved, is the new covenant. It goes on to say, even unto them will I give in my house and within my walls a place and a name better than of sons and of daughters.

I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. Also the sons of the strangers, Gentiles that join themselves to the Lord to serve him and to love the name of the Lord, to be his servants, everyone that keepeth the Sabbath from polluting it, and taketh hold of my covenant. Even them will I bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer. their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on mine altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all people.

That means all people are supposed to be keeping the Sabbath. All people, but the devil lies. And many Christians are advocating for the devil. Oh yeah, it's not for all people. It's just for the Jews back in the Old Testament. Come on. How about the New Testament? God put a prophecy in the New Testament, too. Just in case anyone tried to pull the wool over your eyes and tell you that, oh, the commandments, the Sabbath is done away with. Jesus himself in Matthew 24 20-22 says this, "But pray that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day.

For then, well, when is then? When is then? For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time no nor ever shall be. And except those days be shortened, there should no flesh be saved. But for the elect's sake, those days shall be shortened. What days? Watch in the very next verse, verse 27 or verse 23. Then if any man say unto you, lo here is Christ or there believe it not. For as the lightning cometh out of the east and shineth even unto the west, so shall the coming of the son of man be.

Let me let me rephrase that for you all. Jesus said, "A time is coming where you need to pray that your fight is not on the Sabbath." That time is the same time that many are going to be saying, "Lo, here is Christ. There is Christ." But I tell you, believe it not. For as lightning shines out of the east and comes even unto the west, so shall the Sabbath. Jesus prophesied that the Sabbath would be standing until he comes again. So then in the Old Testament, God prophesied the Sabbath is going to be standing for Gentiles in the New Testament.

In the New Testament, Jesus prophesied the Sabbath is going to be standing in the very time that I come back. So make sure that your flight is not on the Sabbath. Anyone that comes along and tells you, "Hey, guess what? You don't need to keep the law. Guess what? S's been done away with. Part of the ten commandments is no longer binding. Then you can know You are arguing the same principle of the devil. You are arguing that Satan should have right back into the kingdom. Because if there is no law, then there is no wrath.

There is no condemnation. And if there's no condemnation, everybody gets to go to heaven. It is not fair to get rid of a law that caused some people to be lost when the law stood, but now it's done away with and those people are still going to be lost. Shouldn't we commute their sentences? Either the law stands or it doesn't. You cannot say, "Well, it doesn't stand for me, but it stands for them." Either the law stands or it doesn't. And if it doesn't, you are arguing without knowing it that Satan belongs in heaven.

Revelation 22:14, the Bible says, "Blessed are they that do his commandments that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter in through the gates into the city. For outside are dogs and sorcerers and horongers and murderers and idoltors, and whosoever loveth maketh a lie." In other words, outside the city are those who broke the commandments, but inside the city are those who are there because they were obedient to God. They are not saved because they kept the commandments. They're saved because Christ covered them with his righteousness.

And he covered them with his righteousness because they admitted, "Yes, I've broken all of your law, God, and I'm going to turn away from breaking your law. And I know that in turning away from breaking your law, I'm not saved now by keeping your law. I am saved because you covered me. But you only covered me because I admitted my nakedness. The law of God reveals my nakedness. And if there's any part of the law that I want to hide or disqualify or say, "Yeah, that doesn't count. I have I am I have not fully repented.

Woe unto them, the Bible says, that call evil good and good evil, that put darkness for light and light for darkness, that put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own sight. Woe unto them that are mighty to drink wine, wine of Babylon, y'all, and men of strength to mingle strong drink, which justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him. Do you understand this? When we justify wickedness, when we justify sin, it is the opposite of justification by faith.

And that's what so many Christians are doing today. We are justifying why the law of God is done away with. We're justifying why the Sabbath is done away with. And they will use verses and scriptures. And Colossians 2:14-16. Look, all the Sabbaths are done away with. And the Bible says the law is nailed to the cross. All of this in order to justify, in order to argue the devil's point. And beloved, listen, the devil quoted scripture. So just because you quote scripture, doesn't mean you're quoting it in the way that God meant it.

So you say, you say, "Hey, listen. I should be saved because I believe." The problem is you are arguing the devil's point again. Because notice what James 2:19 says. You believe, you believe, there is one God. Thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. But will you not know, oh vain man, that faith without works is dead? If you are arguing that just because you you believe in the God of heaven that you ought to have right to the kingdom of heaven and it doesn't matter if you keep the law then the devil also believes in that God of heaven and he also ought to have right to the kingdom of heaven and he definitely doesn't keep the law of God.

You are arguing you are being the devil's advocate. The Bible is clear. Luke 24:27. We got one more verse after this. Luke 24:27. The Bible says, "And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem." This is beautiful. This is repentance and remission of sin. That's the gospel right there, y'all. repentance. Lord, looking at your commandments, I see that I've broken every one of them. Every one of them. I'm not going to make an excuse for not one of them.

I have broken every one of these commandments. This is genuine repentance. I've broken them all. And I will now turn away. I will no longer practice breaking these commandments. I may fall, but if I do, I'm going to repent. I'm going to keep repenting. You just said that if I repent 70 * 7, you will forgive me 70* 7. So I know that all I need to do is repent. But the devil doesn't want me to repent. The devil wants me to think you don't need to repent for that. That law doesn't even stand. The law in fact is done away with the whole thing.

So some he convinces that the whole thing is done away with. Others he convinces that only part of it is done away with. But it's all right. The part is done away with. Don't you don't have to repent for that. The gospel is repentance from sin, which is transgression of the law. And when you genuinely repent, that's all you need to do. Genuinely be sorry. God says, "I got you." He covers you. He says, "I got you." Because if you're genuinely sorry for sin, you start doing your best to not do that sin anymore.

Through the grace and power of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit begins to work with you. Man, I don't want to break these laws anymore. Because in doing that, I am breaking love. Jesus came to fix love, not destroy it. And that's what y'all are saying when you say the law of God's been done away with. You're saying love is done away with. And you're again arguing Satan's point, y'all, that God is not love. John 5:32, the Bible says, "I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance." That's it.

You see how simple that is? Why did the God not come to call the righteous? Because there is none righteous, know not one. All of us are guilty of breaking the law of love. And so he comes and he says, "Listen, here's the deal. You repent and I'll cover you. But if you don't repent, I can't do anything for you. Because if I did it for you, I'd have to do it for Satan, too. So all I need you to do is repent. Satan's not repenting. And if you refuse to repent and you still and and think you still should have access to heaven and if you are right then I have to let Satan in too.

Why would I let you in and not Satan? I came not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. You repent and I'm going to cover you. You can't be saved by your own works. You can't be saved by saying from now on I'm going to keep the commandments perfectly. If you kept the commandments perfectly from this point out, it still wouldn't save you because you have already sinned. The only thing that can save you is my covering you. But the evidence of your love, the evidence that love has been fixed in you is that you will keep the law of love, the Ten Commandments, the perfect transcript of God's character.

my appeal is very simple. Repent and God will cover you. Repent of every commandment. All the all 10 of them. God summarized them. Love for God, love for neighbor, it's all the same thing. It's the law of love. The Ten Commandments is righteousness spelled out for dummies. It's love spelled out for dummies. If you love me, this is what you will do. If you love your neighbor, this is what you will not do. So God says, "Repent, and I got you." You're watching this, you're hearing this for the first time, and you're realizing, "Whoa, there's stuff I have not repented for.

I thought the law wasn't was done away with." That's a lie from the devil. I repent for believing that. I repent for breaking your law. I repent for thinking your law no longer stands. I didn't know I was being the devil's advocate. And I no longer want to be the devil's advocate. Because if God has called me to be a juror, then I've got to know the difference between right and wrong. And the only way I can do that is by trusting God and listening to his word and abiding by his law. Because any society that is bent on lawlessness is a society that is following the dictates of the lawless one.

Repent and be baptized. That was the message of John the Baptist. That's the message of Jesus. Very simple. Repent and I got you. and I've got you. As you're watching this, I it is my prayer that if you're hearing this for the first time, you will not allow anything to get in between you and what God has shown you today. Help me Lord to repent from breaking your law and cover me and allow me, empower me to stop breaking your commandments, to stop breaking the Sabbath, to stop believing the lies that the law of God has been done away with or altered, changed from the seventh day of the week to the first day of the week, done away with all together by the cross.

Help me no longer to believe any of those lies. Please, Lord, I repent. Cover me with your grace. Save me by your grace. If that's you, I'm going to ask you. You may be on now or you may be watching later. Put that one in the chat. You don't even have to put the one in the chat, but make that decision in your mind and follow the truth. If you're hearing it for the first time and you're saying, "Okay, I need Bible study. I need to understand more of this." that I'm going to ask you. I'm going to we're going to put a link.

We're going to pin a link in the chat. Either pin it or put it in the chat. Pin it at the top. Put it in the chat. If you want to get in into Bible study to get greater understanding of these truths, I'm leading out a Bible study every Thursday night. It's a baptismal class. I invite you to join that study if you are interested in being baptized. There is the link. There is the uh email bibleworker living mana.urch. And I'm going to close in prayer. But before I do that, let me take you to the last slide.

For those of you who would like to get a copy of these slides, use your phone, scan this QR code. It's up on the screen. And that's how you can get a copy of the slides. That's how you can get access to all of our other social media information. And may God bless you. May God bless you as you contemplate the mana that has come from heaven today. May God bless you. And uh let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for speaking. Thank you, Lord, for saving us from being the devil's advocates, Lord. We want to be your advocates.

We want to stand for your truth. We want to stand for your name. We want to stand for your glory. We want to stand for your principles, Lord. So, please, for those who have been the devil's advocates and did not know it, did not understand it, were ignorant of it, ignorant of it, Lord, I pray forgiveness because you wink in times of ignorance. Now Lord, now I pray that you would give them boldness to step out on the truth and to walk in the truth. Lord, please empower them to make this decision.

I pray it in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. May God bless you.