The body should not be divided over vaccines or over race. There is nothing that should divide the body of Christ. And you can almost see the hypocrisy when a when a call was made last year to divide the body because of religious liberty and vaccines. There were people who were because the church is an apostasy anyway. The church is not the church is the church is is it's no longer the voice of of God on earth. and and and there's corruption and and and there were these ju just hey it what's the big deal whole conferences are going to fall and last year when I said hey no no no no no wrong move you don't know what you're talking about and now now in in in light of certain events have taken place over the last several weeks where you now have this issue of race being brought up in the church and questions and talk of you know should we divide should we have you know a black conference or white conference.

I say no, that's still not the answer. I mean, wow, what a what a slip up. Black conferences and white conferences. I'll get to that in a moment. Should we separate based on on this? And I'm saying no. The same people who were cheering back then and saying, "Oh, this is boldness. This is courage. We need to stand." Are saying, "Well, how can you? This is this is divisive. And this is a" And you know what? Trust me. Trust me. Guess what's going to happen? Those who follow right Jesus are going to be like, "Well, you see the difference between that and this is."

And those who follow left Jesus who are cheering this on will say, "Well, the difference between this and that was," and I'm telling you, telling you you guys, dividing the body is never the answer. That's what Satan wants to do. Last year when people were talking about we need to boycott the GC and and we're going to take our tithe and divert it and people were cheering it and I said, "No, that's wrong. We we no we and how dare you. How dare you? And when I say the same thing now, regardless of what I believe is an actual issue that needs to be addressed in our church, I'm saying still the issue needs to be addressed.

Let's come together and address the issue. But no, division is not the answer. And when I see that that people are willing to divide and you got to understand beloved, we might be we we're still a church but the the division is happening on a micro level because people are splitting friendships. You know, you know how many friends I've lost that I don't even know I've lost yet? Friends who I've lost because because they thought I was worshiping left Jesus. Anytime I spoke about, you know, we got to stand for justice.

Oh, you're left Jesus. you don't believe that that you know that that this is wrong or this is wrong. And I'm like, when did I ever say that? I don't believe this is wrong. This is wrong. No, I it was just you're left Jesus. You're right, Jesus. And so this division happening on this micro level is people cutting people off. I don't talk with them no more. Why? Cuz she's left Jesus. He's left Jesus. He's right Jesus. She's right Jesus. And people just stop talking. Sometimes you don't even know that you've been unfriended till you're running through your Facebook one day and you're like, "Wait a minute.

We were not friend." The division is happening on a micro level revealing that we are just like the