Good evening everyone. Good evening. Um, you all go ahead and let me know if you could hear me and if you can see me. Let's put a one in that chat. Welcome everybody. Welcome, welcome, welcome. Okay. So, you can see me and you can hear me. All right. I just need to do something. Um, volume is low. There we go. There we go. All right. All right. Good evening, everybody. I hope everyone is doing well. Um, I hope you are excited about tonight because tonight is going to be a very special message. Uh, okay.

My team is working on the on the volume. So, uh, hopefully you guys can hear me well. Um, all right. Very good. Very good. Very good. Okay. Uh so guys, let's uh let's let's have a word of prayer before we do anything because tonight's message uh tonight's study is going to be absolutely important and really challenging for everybody. whether you're a critic of Adventism, whether you are one who has left Adventism and decided you want to join in and see what I have to say tonight. Um, or if you're an Adventist, uh, this message uh is it's going to challenge you.

It's going to challenge you. So, uh, we need to pray. Now, um, I see some of you saying that my volume is low and I've got my mic uh right in front of me. Some of you are saying it's fine. Um, so I'm gonna I'm gonna kind of leave that to leave that to my team to work out. But hopefully you guys can hear me well because I'm really talking into the mic now. Um, all right you guys, let's pray and let's get ready for the study tonight. By the way, hit that share button. Let people know that that we are live right now.

Tell them to tune in because they don't want to miss this. All right. Um, okay. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, we ask that uh as we get into this study tonight that you would bless us, Lord, that you would open our eyes and our hearts. Lord, help us to understand how your spirit functions. And Lord, most of all, uh, help our hearts to be right with you so that the promise can be fulfilled that if we seek after you with all our hearts, we will find you. And so we thank you, Lord, for hearing.

Lord, bless your word now. Bless this study now. We pray in Jesus name. And I want to pray Lord for all who are watching and who will watch. Lord that they will understand the nature of this challenge. Please Lord reveal your mighty power is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Okay. So, um, we're going to, uh, we're going to go to the screen and, um, I will make my slides available, by the way. I'll make my slides available as I always do. Uh, but tonight, as I said, is going to be a very serious study.

In fact, um, this this study tonight, um, entitled Ellen White and her hypocritics. Yeah, that's a play on words. Um, and you will see why I titled it Ellen White. Ellen White and her YouTube hippo critics. Ellen White and her YouTube hippo critics. I want to issue tonight the challenge, which I'm calling the KTS challenge. Now, I I think some of you may have seen um that KTSE and were wondering what is KTSSE. And I'm not going to tell you now. Um I will make it known a little bit later on in the study, but you will understand.

And in fact, I'm going to ask you uh uh every now and every now and then I'm going to ask you to put that KTS in the chat because you will know what it means. And once you know what it means, man, it's going to make a world of difference in how you approach um the critics who challenge you, particularly when it comes to Ellen White. So tonight's tonight's study is in fact a warning to the critics regarding the methods they use to try to disprove Adventism and specifically the methods they use to try to disprove Adventism.

our seventh um disprove excuse me disprove Ellen White. Um so uh with that said um let's I want to talk to you tonight about five energies. Five energies. Let's go to the screen uh and you'll see here the hypocritic arguments. And there are five energies we are going to be looking at tonight. five uh you know, five attitudes, five arguments that I'm simply calling energies. Um because these are kind of what the the the critics they base their argument off of and it empowers them. They feel that this empowers them.

Uh so uh we're going to begin with energy number one, anti-plagiarism. anti-plagiarism. The anti-plagiarism enemy. Um, I see some stuff in the chat that I'm just not going to respond to because um, honestly, I don't want y'all to steal my thunder right now. So, I'm just going to ignore some of the things I've just seen. Anti-plagiarism energy. So, the anti-plagiarism energy of the skeptics is this. Ellen White copied from sources and therefore she is not divinely inspired. So the argument is and go ahead and put a one in the chat if you have seen that argument.

Um you know Ellen White has copied and plagiarized and it's one of the things that a lot of these YouTube critics will throw out there in hopes that you will come to the conclusion that Ellen White is a false prophet. she's a false prophet because um there is evidence that she copied from others and in in their minds that proves that that Ellen White is a false prophet. And so you'll even see sometimes diagrams like you know from the book Desire of Ages will will be a typical example and you'll see something like you know uh a a half of a sentence or maybe a sentence or maybe even you know part of a paragraph that that may be identical to something else that someone wrote earlier.

So, uh, that is that is the anti- plagiarism energy. And I'm now going to introduce to you what KTS stands for. We're going to go to the screen. We're going to go to the screen and we're going to see that KTS stands for y'all put it in the chat for me, please. Keep that same energy. Let me see you put it in the chat on the Bible. We just want to make sure that we are all on the same page. Keep that same Are we good? Y'all got it? I'm looking for it in the chat. Keep that same So, so what happens then when when the critics keep that same energy?

something very dangerous happens. And what I'm going to suggest to you, beloved, is that the energy that they use to condemn uh Ellen White is a very dangerous energy. It's a very dangerous energy. It's a very dangerous method. Why? Why? Let's let's focus for a moment on what it means to keep that same energy. So a lot of people when you hear them say you know I left Adventism because I began studying and seeing you know these things in Ellen White and you know I began to realize you know upon earnest study that that she copied from other sources.

So here's the problem with that you guys. Here's the problem with that. Let's go to the screen and I'm just going to read for a little while. Okay let's go to the screen. Um these are quotes from different sources. Um, a lot of these are are sources from atheists. So, let's read. Many critical scholars in Western universities suggest that the biblical creation and flood stories borrowed ideas from ancient neareastern texts. For example, the creation story in Genesis must be influenced in the Babylonian creation story of Enuma Elish since the story in Genesis is briefer and the preserved records of Genesis belong to a later date.

Both accounts share similar motifs of pre primeval waters and the separation of elements in creation suggesting possible literary influence or shared cultural understandings of origins. Y'all put KTS in the chat for me. Please keep that same energy. Let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. We got a lot to cover here. Um, I just pulled this from one web page, at the Atlanta Black Star. And here is the article, eight biblical concepts and stories that originated outside of the Bible. And then it goes on to list those eight.

And we're not going to look at all eight, but I just I'm just showing you some examples. Okay? Keep that same energy. That's what I'm saying to the critic right now. Keep that same energy. Pastor, what do you mean keep that same energy? Let's keep moving on. So here are here are some of the biblical stories. There's a lot of evidence that the epic of Gilgamesh, one of the oldest recorded texts in human history estimated to go as far back as 22 B 2200 BC had an influence on the biblical creation story.

The Epic of Gilgamesh tells a story of a man in in Kindu who was created by the from the earth by God. He lives among the animals in a natural paradise until he is tempted by a woman. Let's keep reading. We're going to go to the next page and says uh he cites several examples but one was a quote from Sir Godfrey Higgins the English orientalist as follows. He says, "Another stride uh striding instance is recorded by the very intelligent traveler Wilson regarding a representation of the fall of our first parents sculptured in the magnificent temple of the Ipsambbul in Nubia.

He says that a very exact representation of Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden is seen to be in that cave and that the serpent climbing around the tree is especially deline delineated and the whole subject of the temptation of the tempting of our first parents most accurately exhibited in the epic of Gilgamesh in Kendu was tempted by a woman named Shamat. He accepts food from this woman and is forced to leave his paradise in the forest after becoming aware of his own nakedness. Later in the epic, he encounters a snake which steals a plant of immortality from him.

He dies forgetting the day when he turned into a human. Let's keep reading. Now, for many of you, this may be a challenge, but I just need you to follow along because I'm trying to demonstrate something to you here. So here's a chart that shows similarities and some of the differences between the Bible and the Gilgamesh version. So remember how you know the critics will take Ellen White and they'll say see uh Ellen White copied this story from here and so she is a false prophet. Remember the remember the premise and here you can see in this chart uh that in the Genesis story and the Gilgamesh story there are things like the glove be the the flood being global uh the cause man's wickedness uh intended for whom all mankind um sender Yahweh the sender assembly of gods uh the na the name of the hero is Noah the name of the hero in the Gilgamesh story is napfishim uh hero's character is righteous same and Gilgamish.

And it goes on. We're not going to read through all of them. Just just kind of laying something out here for you. Okay. Here's more examples of the parallels between these two stories. Now, I want to I want let me just let me just keep reading. I'm going to keep my comments until the the end of this particular section. So, let's keep reading. Let's keep going. Um Pandora's box. In Greek mythology, Pandora was the first woman on Earth. The god Zeus gave her a box and told her not to open it. In the original Greek, the object was a jar, but the two words are similar.

And it seems that Arasmus or Arasmus mis mistransated it as box. And that is what stuck. Inside the box were all the troubles of the world, including death. And when Pandora opened it, the troubles escaped to plague the whole world. Zeus had given her the box, hoping that she would open it, thus releasing trouble in the world. This was his way of bringing trouble upon the world since Promeththeus had given fire to mankind. Let's keep reading. The story of Pandora's box is an attempt to explain why there is trouble in the world.

It does contain some aspects that are similar to the account of Genesis 3 where God tells us how sin and death entered the world. Now, I want you to remember that in a lot of these instances, what I'm going what I'm going to be reading to you are either liberal scholars or critics of the Bible who say that the Bible cannot be trusted because they have evidence that the stories in the Bible were plagiarized. Now y'all put a one in the chat if you understand the significance of keep that same energy.

Put a one in the chat if you are catching the significance of what I mean when I say keep that same I'm not going to say it yet. I just want to see if y'all are follow following along. All right, let's keep going. Let's keep going. Um, Noah's flood, Genesis versus the Gilgamesh epic. It is commonly accepted that parts of Genesis 1-11 show literary dependence either directly or indirectly on Mesopotamian literary tradition. The flood story in Genesis 6-9 provides the best parallel of these or the best examples of these parallels.

And there's a source, God in translation, deities across cross deities and cross-cultural discourse in the biblical world. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Here's a paper called Genesis and Gilgamesh. Parallels between the Garden of Eden and the sacred cedar forest by Adam Mig Miglo Miglio. What do the book What do the book of Genesis and the Epic of Gilgamesh have in common? Surprisingly, a lot. Chapters 1- 11 of Genesis reached their final form during the 8th uh 8th to fifth century BC when the people of Judah were in were in sustained contact with Mesopotamian polities.

And for this reason, Genesis 1-11 shares the epic of Gilgamesh stories of wy serpents, demagogues, a catastrophic flood, supernatural plants, and herculean feats of engineering. So, let me ask you a question. Let me ask you a question. Now, listen. The purpose of this tonight is not for you to say, "No, no, no, pastor, that's wrong, and this is why." I know I I don't believe that what the critics are saying about the Bible that, "Oh, they borrowed and this is just plagiarism." I don't believe that.

So, the argument for me right now is not, "Oh, but pastor, that's wrong." I get it's wrong. I know it's wrong. I just want you to see what the critics of the Bible say. The critics of the Bible use the exact same method against the Bible that critics of Adventism will use against Ellen White. And those same critics, when faced with these uh uh uh uh uh evidences of the Bible being plagiarized, will go out on a limb to explain why it's not plagiarism. Are y'all with me? Do you see an inconsistency in the energy?

These very same critics who will say, "Oh, look at Ellen White. Look, she plagiarized this, she plagiarized that. Look, you can s look at this here and look at that there. Look at the copy of the sentence. They will ignore the atheist who also says, "Look at the Bible. The Bible copied from this and this." These stories are just myths that were borrowed from other cultures. Come on, y'all. Let's keep going. Put in the chat, if you want to say an amen, don't say amen. Just put KTSC in the chat. Just put KTS in in the chat.

Keep that same energy. Let's keep reading. Uh here's another book, the religion, the greatest confidence trick in history. The following stories are far older than the pentatuk and contain much the same elements. In the Persian story, God created the world in six days. A man called Adam and a woman called Eva and then rested. The estrusian, Babylonian, Phoenician, Calaldian, and Egyptian stories are much the same. The Persians, Greeks, and Egyptians had their garden of Eden and a tree of life. And it goes on, I want you to see that in a critic's mind, it is absolutely obvious that the Bible was plagiarized.

In the atheist mind, it is how how can that cult call Christianity and that's what they call Christianity, is it not? Do they not call it a cult? Do they not say, "Can't they see that the Bible is plagiarized?" And yet these same Adventist critics will take that spirit, that energy, and apply it to Ellen White, but are not consistent when it comes to the Bible. In other words, if discovering plagiarism led you to walk away from Ellen White, then if you're consistent, you should also end up walking away from what?

Put it in the chat for me, please. If you apply the same energy that you apply to Ellen White, oh, I found out that she's plagiarized. I think she's plagiarizing. If I studied to see and discover that she plagiarized and here are the sources. If you apply that same energy to the Bible, if you walked away from Ellen White, come on y'all. If you walked away from Ellen White, the next step, if you're consistent, is to walk away from the Bible. But in order to stay with the Bible, you have to be inconsistent.

Yeah, you can't apply the same rules to Ellen White that you do the Bible. Which says to me, whoa, our critics apply a higher standard to Ellen White than they do the Bible. Isn't that interesting? There's more. So, this is from the same book. I'm going to skip it. You I think you guys get the point. I'm going to skip it. Uh, let's go to this one. Wisdom literature. Proverbs versus the instruction of Ammonop. Ammo. I think that's how you pronounce it. The teaching of Ammo and Proverbs 22 uh uh chapter 22:1 17 to chapter 24 verse 22.

Further reflections on a longstanding problem. by JA Emerton Cambridge. Adolf man argued in 1924 that Proverbs 22:17 to Proverbs 24:10 is dependent on an Egyptian sep uh sepatal sepatal work the teaching of ammonop ammo man these names. Since then, it has been widely though never universally agreed that this part of the book of Proverbs or in the opinion of many, the whole of those verses have been influenced by this Egyptian source. Whoa, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Proverbs. Proverbs. Oh, that was copy too.

Now, once again, my point is not to say, oh, the Bible is is therefore in error because of these alleged alleged please note alleged borrowings. My argument is if you are keeping if you are of the energy exercising the energy that oh look this so-called prophet copied from another source and therefore they are not a prophet you must apply to be consistent internally consistent you must apply the same now listen y'all I'm consistent I'm going to tell you I think we as a church are consistent because I can I can defend the Bible being divinely inspired in light of all of this and I will use that same energy to also prove that Ellen White is divinely inspired.

However, if you're applying the energy that borrowing dismisses or borrowing from someone else means you were not inspired, then beloved, the only logical conclusion is that you must walk away from the Bible. I'm not encouraging you to walk away from the Bible. I'm simply saying the ex the the the energy you used to dismiss Ellen White is a dangerous energy because if you carry that energy through to its logical conclusion, you will walk away from the Bible. But you don't carry it through to its logical conclusion because you're being partial.

You want to assume, well, everybody knows the Bible's true. Really, the skeptic doesn't assume that. And the skeptic challenges you on that. The skeptic says, "You're walking in blind faith. You disregard all the evidence, but you turn around and use that same argument against Adventists." Are y'all with me so far? Keep that same energy. Yeah. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. So, here's the wisdom literature. How about this? How about this? Let's see. All right, here we go. Biblical text. For their lamp, for their command is a lamp.

Don't lust after her beauty. For the prostitute will bring you to poverty. Here's the Here's the ancient text from Amino A&M. If you encounter a moral woman, do not let her seduce you. Her lips are sweet, but her feet are evil. The same energy that led you to walk away from Ellen White should also lead you to walk away from the Bible. I'm not encourage encouraging you to walk away from the Bible. I'm encouraging you to check that energy that led you to walk away from Ellen White. Let's keep moving.

Let's keep moving. So, here's another one from the Atlantic Black Star. There are many striking similarities between the book of Proverbs in the Bible and the Egyptian instruction of A&M. And it goes on to give even more examples. I'm going to skip all those examples and let's go to the next example. The next example in this Atlantic Black Star article and uh here it says here we go. Uh I'm going to skip that too. Proverbs 23 and Amino chapter 7. I'm not going to not going to uh uh read all that.

Let's keep Okay, here we go. In the Bible, the ten commandments were given to Moses on Mount Si and were written on tables of stone supposedly by the hand of God himself. Note that supposedly by the hand of God himself. This is the skeptic's argument. This is estimated to have taken place around 1490 BC. However, chapter 125 of the Egyptian Book of the Dead around 2600 BC, which would have been available to Moses during his time in Egypt, seems to have provided some inspiration. The Egyptian book of the dead reads like the ten commandments written in the negative confession.

Some examples are the book of the dead, I have not blasphemed. Exodus 20:7, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. The book of the dead, I have not defiled the wife of a man. Uh, Exodus 2014, thou shalt not commit adultery. The book of the dead, I have not stolen. Exodus 2015, thou shalt not steal. You get the picture. The skeptic seizes upon this alleged evidence and goes, "See, Moses plagiarized." Now, watch this. The Adventist skeptic will go out on a limb. Come back for a moment.

Come back for a moment, y'all. the Adventist skeptic, the the same individual who will say, "Yeah, the Adventists, they this and that, and I don't like this and that." Will go out on a limb to be like, "No, no, no. Listen, you have to understand that in the Bible, blah, blah, blah." Now, I it doesn't even matter what they say. I just want you to note the change of Are you Are you seeing this? The change of energy They want the skeptic to No, no, no. You got to understand the context and you got to understand.

No, no, no. It's not really a no the No, let me explain. But they don't give that same courtesy for that which they do not want to be true. Let's go back to the screen. Psalm 104 and its parallel in the Pharaoh Ahen Akhenitan's hymn. Themes from the Egyptian great hymn of the divine sundisk appear in Psalm 104. Dangerous animals at night, human activity during the day, a focus on humans as opposed to Israelites, the great power of water, and many more. This is written by professor Aaron Kohler goes he goes on to say the American Egyptologist Hen James Henry Breasted who wrote his dissertation in Germany in Germany and in Latin on Pharaoh Aenathton drew attention more than a century ago to the striking parallels between the great hymn and Psalm 104.

A close comparison shows that there are a large number of shared motifs in the same order, including some motifs that are not found anywhere else in the Bible. Given that the hymn is earlier than than Psalms, it would then be a clear case of borrowing by one of the biblical authors. All right, y'all. KTSE KTS. the same energy, the same inspiration that led you to go, "Oh, Ellen White borrowed, therefore, she's a false prophet." Utilizing that same energy and being consistent will lead you to walk away from the Bible, which I believe is Satan's goal.

Now remember y'all, the purpose of my of my study tonight is not to explain. I'm not I'm not the purpose is not to explain. No, no, no. The reason this is wrong is because no, let the Adventist critic do that. And then as the Adventist critic explains why the Bible, you know, no, no, no, it's not this, then then ask the Adventist critic to utilize that same energy. Yes. that same benefit of the doubt, that same no, no, no, no, no. You know what? I believe that this is truth and therefore I'm going to do whatever I need to do to defend it and I will never I am just going to try to prove disprove that the Bible is divinely inspired.

So we got one of two options. If the Bible can be divinely inspired, even if it borrowed from other sources, h argument done. If the Bible cannot be divinely inspired and it bother borrowed from other sources, if you walked away from Ellen White, you should walk away from the Bible. I'm just saying keep that same energy. Wrong energy will lead you to the wrong conclusions. Right energy will keep you safe. Right energy will lead you into truth all the time. Right energy will never lead you away from God.

Let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen, y'all. Uh law codes, covenant code versus the code of ham ham ham rabi. If a man's ax hurts a ma a a man's servant or maid, the owner must pay 30 shekels of silver. Hammy rabbi is quote, "If an ox scores a man's slave and kills him, his owner shall weigh out 30 shekels of silver." The same critic that wants you to have mind blown when you see a sentence from Ellen White that appears someplace else. Ah, Lisa, wisdom can show up in multiple places.

Wow, that's a thought. You mean God can can can speak to other people? Again, the purpose is not to explain just how. I'm just trying to show you the hippo critic. the the the the operation of the hypocritic of Ellen White. Let's keep going and I'm going to start skipping some of these Moses and the A&E legal code. And then you'll see a bunch of laws from Moses that parallel other system in in in ancient Babylon, ancient Mesopotamia. So, we're going to skip this. We're just going to keep reading.

I just want you to see I got all this, you know, when people like to stack up the evidence and they say, "Look at all these quotes from Ellen White and this was borrowed from here and this was borrowed from there." Do you do you take that same energy into the Bible? How about this one? Judaism teaches pure monotheism while Catholicism favors the trinity concept. Yet, it is clearly a concept that was influenced by other pagan religions existing at the time that Christianity came about. Examples of pagan trinities are Ammon, Rah, uh, Ta of of the Egyptian mythology, Anu, Enl, and A of the Samrian mythology, and Ishtar, Baal, and Tamuz of Babylonian mythology.

H, wait a minute. What? The atheist says that Christianity got the whole idea of father, son, and holy spirit from other sources. It was borrowed. The 7th Day Adventist critic just ignores that. But he'll use the very same arguments against Adventism. He doesn't appreciate those arguments that the atheist makes against the Bible, but will use that very same argument against Adventists. Here's another one. Here's another one. So, we're talking about plagiarism. We're talking about borrowing. Here's this one.

Um um many gods besides Christ have supposed have been supposed to die, be resurrected and ascended to heaven. The idea has now been traced back to its original among primitive people in the annual death and resurrection of crops and plant life generally. According to the advocates of the solar myth theory, the ancient crucified saviors were personifications of the sun and their life story were allegorories of the sun's passages through the 12 constellations of the zodiac. Let's keep going. Uh y'all may remember a book or may have heard about a book called the the world's 16 crucified saviors.

And in this book, the world's 16 crucified saviors or Christianity before Christ contains new startling and extraordinary revelations in religious history, which discloses the oriental origin of all the doctrines, principles, and precepts and miracles of the Christian New Testament and furnishing a key of unlocking many of its sacred mysteries besides comprising the history of the 16 heathen crucified gods is an 1875 non-fiction book written by American freethinker Kirsty Graves, which asserts that Jesus Jesus was not an actual person but was a creation largely based on earlier stories of deities or god men saviors who had been crucified and descended to and ascended from the underworld.

Are y'all catching this? Here are some of those crucified saviors. Osiris, Horus, Mithras, at least some of them are saviors and some said some of them are said to be crucified saviors. Um, and is what atheists would rejoice over. Look at these sources of plagiarism. Not to mention Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Not to mention Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Throw those out, too. walk away from Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. All right. So, so the same anti-plagiarism energy that leads you to reject Ellen White, if consistently applied, will also lead you to reject the Bible.

Put a one in the chat if you now understand and see why keep that same energy when you have negative energy is not a good thing because now you're being a hypocrite. Add Paul too. Yes. Now you're being a hypocrite. Now the atheist says, "Look at you. Look at you silly Christians. Don't you know the Bible is a bunch of plagiarized and borrowed stories? You think it's divinely inspired? You think that God gave that? No, no, no. That came from Babylon. That came from from the Mesopotamia. That came from this story and from that story.

You y'all understand what I'm saying? This is the argument that that atheists use against the Bible. And the Adventist skeptic or the skeptic of Adventism, the critic of Adventism, utilizes that same energy towards Ellen White. Keep that same energy. Let's go to energy number two. Energy number two. And now y'all be begin to understand where this is going. The hypocrites argument. Five energies. Energy number two is the energy of failed prophecy. The energy of failed prophecies. Ellen White's prophecies failed and therefore she is a false prophet.

Now again, I am not even addressing whether Ellen White's prophecies failed or not. That's not the question. Yes, Sonia, I'm saving that quote for last. I am saving that quote for last. And yes, the core the energies I believe are not from God because God is always consistent. As your do you as a critic, do you do you have all the answers to the Bible? You know what they're going to say? No. But yet you still trust it. Yeah. But because you didn't have all the answers for what you were looking at in in in the writings of Ellen White, you're like, "Oh, no."

Now, remember the critic says, "Oh, we place Ellen White and the Bible on the same level." And no, we don't. But from this, we see, whoa, the critics than they do the Bible. Because if they apply the same standard to Ellen White that they do the Bible, they would have to walk away from the Bible, too. They might say, "Oh, no, no, no, no. But we've looked at the Bible and we've, you know, we've uh we've answered these these accusations against the Bible." Why? You didn't go in, you didn't go in doubting, oh, wait a minute.

Is the Bible wrong? No, no, no. You were like your your default position was we are going to prove the Bible true. We are going to prove the Bible right. So no matter what I think it says, I know that there must be an explanation. There must be something that I'm just not understanding. And once I get it, then I'm going to be like, see, there's no contradiction in the Bible, which we're going to come to as well. Because beloved, a lot of this boils down to what you think inspiration is. Did God dictate the words of the Bible?

Or were the were the prophets of the Bible inspired in thought? Did God dictate to them exactly what to write? Or did God inspire them and then they wrote in their own words? They wrote in their own mentality. They wrote according to their own personality. There's a huge difference between verbal the the theory of verbal inspiration. Everything in the Bible that is written, God directed. He was like dictating. Okay, write this exact word. And when I say and write and write the. Every word in the Bible was dictated by God.

Is that what the Bible teaches? Or did man did God use man and inspire man and allow man to write out the truth in his own words, in his own style? In other words, freedom of choice. Oh, come on. All right. Come on. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go back. Failed prophecies. Let's go. Let's go to the screen. Ready? Keep that same energy. Keep that same energy. Oh, the reason I walked away from Ellen White is because blah blah blah this. She said this and this and that happened and she said that. All right, keep that same energy.

Keep that same energy. Um, here's a book 100 false prophecies. False Bible prophecies. 100 false Bible prophecies. Now, now my argument is not to say, "Oh, this book is wrong." I'm not even addressing that. I just want you to see what skeptics of the Bible say. Yeah. Skeptics say 100 false Bible prophecies. And you know what the critic of Adventism will do here? They will say, "No, no, no, no. You got to understand the context. You got to understand conditional prophecy." And you and all and they will make every possible argument to defend.

But let's go. Let's go. Let's just see some of these. Let's see what some of the critics say here. um some of the some of the critics of the Bible. Okay, ready? Ezekiel describes a future temple in detail. It ne it was never constructed historically. Um here's another one. Nebuchadnezzar would destroy Tyrant would be no more. H Ty was besieged but survive. The city still exists today. How about this one? Egypt will be desolated for 40 years, uninhabited. Outcome, there's no record of a 40-year desolation.

Here's another one. These are, listen y'all, these are arguments of the critics of the Bible. This generation will not pass before all these things happen. Jesus himself, what if Ellen White said this? What if Ellen White had said, "This generation will not pass before all these." Do you know how the critics would jump on? Ellen White said, "Hold on, but when Jesus says it, oh well, see, you got to understand." And what they do is they assume, well, because you're a Christian, you're not going to question Jesus.

You're not going to question the Bible, but you can question Ellen White. But the critic of the Bible says that's cultish. You're not going to question the Bible because you believe in a God. You believe in God. So the Bible could say anything and you just believe in it because you choose to believe. And the critic of the Bible, the atheist says that's why Christianity is a cult. And you know what the critic of Adventism will do when he's in a position like that? He will go on and on about no, we're not a cult.

And you got to understand that when you look at the prophecies, you got to and they will go through. They take a default position that they assume they assume. Okay, here's my default position. And it's my default position because everybody else who believes the same thing I do has the same default position. But when challenged by the atheist, now all of a sudden, you're going to you're going to you're going to demand that the atheist has to be reasonable and has to dialogue and has to understand that there are nuances, but you don't want to allow that for the discussion with Ellen White.

No, no, no, no, no. You don't want any, you don't want no Nope. But you want that from the atheist, though. Are y'all with me? put a one in the chat if you're following my argument, if you're understanding what I'm saying. So, let's keep going. I'm gonna go to the screen. I'm looking for the ones in the chat. Paul's belief in Christ's imminent return. We who are alive will be caught up. Paul died long before Christ returned. Um Jesus promised to come quickly. Behold, I come quickly. 2,000 years have passed with no return.

How about this? Uh destruction of Damascus prophecy. Damascus will become a ruinous heap. Damascus has been continuously inhabited. Here's another one. David's line will rule forever. How come? Literal monarchy ended. Some interpret it messianically. They're saying, in other words, it's not really, but his monarchy ended. His line ended. How about this? Well, let me sum it up like this. The same anti-f false prophecy energy that to reject the Bible. wait a minute, though. You know what you're going to say?

You know what the Adventist, the critic of Adventism will say? Well, you got to understand that the prophecies and they'll begin to explain and defend and put on their apologetic hat, but they don't want to put on the apologetic hat. And it's unfortunate because so many Adventists have walked away from Adventism based on energies of atheism. Let me say it again. So many Adventists have walked away from Adventism based on the energies of atheism. The same spirit atheism applies to the Bible is the same spirit they apply to the spirit of prophecy.

So if they applied that spirit consistently, in other words, if they weren't being double-minded, if they were being consistent, genuinely consistent, this the very reasons you walk away from Ellen White should also lead you to walk away from the Bible. But yet you cling to the Bible. You can't explain how all these prophecies were not fulfilled. And you know there are prophecies in the Old Testament that were not fulfilled. You can't explain it. But guess what? You still believe in the Bible. And you know what the atheist calls that?

The atheist calls that cultlike behavior. And you, Mr. Christian, you Mr. Seventh Day Adventist critic, you Mr. the Seventh Day Adventist is a cult because they're not studying and they won't don't want to see. You will look at the atheists and deny, deny, deny. No, no, no. You got to understand, you see, you're just not being fair with the Bible. You see, you're just not being reasonable. Look, look, look. You know what? It's because you're hard-hearted. You don't want to hear evidence that goes against what you believe.

So, you just you're just uh uh you know, you're just being close-minded and you're just trying to y'all y'all catch what I'm saying. All right, we're almost done. We're almost there, y'all. We got three more to go. So, hypocritic argument number three, the anti-contradiction So, what is this energy? Ellen White contradicts herself and the Bible. Therefore, she cannot be trusted. You've heard people say that, right? Adventist leaves. Ads. Yes. Yes. Yes. I saw that. I caught that. So, the ad the the the the Oh, Ellen White contradicts herself and she says one thing here and another thing there and you just don't know what to believe.

She contradicts herself all over the place. And there's, you know, one particular, no, I can't even say one particular. Every YouTube Adventist critic goes in on that. Oh, here she says this, but she contradicts herself. And there's so many contradictions in in the Adventist system. Okay, keep that same energy. Y'all put it in the chat for me, please. KT, keep that same energy. Let's go to the screen. Let's go to the screen. Keeping that same energy. What does that mean for the Bible? Y'all ready?

Y'all may be familiar with that with that list put out by several atheists, several skeptics, 101 contradictions in the Bible. Who incited David to count the fighting men of Israel? 2 Samuel 24:1 God did. 1st Chronicles 21:1, Satan did. In that count, how many men fighting were men found in Israel? 2 Samuel 24:9, 8,000. 1st Chronicles 21:5, 1,100,000. All right. How about this one? How many fighting men were found in Judah? 500,000. 2 Samuel 24:9. 470,000. 1st Chronicles 21:5. God sent his prophet to threaten David with how many years of famine?

7, according to 2 Samuel 24:13. Three, according to 1st Chronicles 21:12. All right, let's keep going. Age discrepancies in the Bible. How old was Aariah when he began to rule over Jerusalem? 22 according to 2 Kings 8:26. 42 according to 2 Chronicles 22:2. How old was Jehoakin when he became king of Jerusalem? 18 according to 2 Kings 24:8. 8 according to 2 Chronicles 36:9. Let's keep going. Y'all listen. I told y'all. I told y'all this message is going to be hard for everybody if you're not studying the Bible.

If you're not deep down in the scriptures, if you don't understand how how inspiration works, you will struggle just like the atheist and just like the skeptic. The purpose of this of this study is not to lead you to doubt the Bible because beloved, you have no reason to doubt the Bible. The Bible is God's divinely inspired word. Period. And there is evidence for it. incontrovertible evidence. But if you're looking for evidence in the wrong place, if you're looking for hooks to hang your doubt upon, you're going to find them.

Come on, let's go back. Let's go back to the timeline. Timeline discrepancies in the Bible. How long did Jehoan rule over Jerusalem? Three months. according to 2 Kings 24:8, three months and 10 days. According to 2 Chronicles 36:9, the chief of the mighty men of David lifted lifted up his spear and killed how many men at once? 800 according to 2 Samuel 23:8. 300 according to 1st Chronicles 11:1. Um, chronological discrepancies. When did David bring the ark of the covenant to Jerusalem? Before defeating the Philistines or after?

According to 2 Samuel 5 and6, after defeating the Philistines? According to 1st Chronicles 13:14, before defeating the Philistines. Let's keep moving, y'all. Faith versus works. James chapter 2 verse 24, a person is justified by works and not by faith and and a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. Ephesians 2:8:9, for by grace you have been saved through faith, not works. Whoa, wait a minute. Wait, what? What an obvious contradiction, says the atheist. But the critic of Adventism will say, "No, no, no.

Listen, you have to understand, you got to you got to look at it in cont. They'll say context is king. Here's why James 2:24 doesn't contradict Ephesians 2 vers 8 and 9. Absolutely, Marco. In other words, how can the critics defend the word when presented with the same arguments they use against Ellen White? It is hypocrisy. Let's keep going. Law versus grace. According to Romans 6:14, you are not under the law, but under grace. According to Matthew 5:17, I did not come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it.

Let's keep moving. Law done away with versus law remains. In Romans 3:31, "Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid, ye, we establish the law." Uh, Colossians 2:14, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. Um, Romans 7:12, for we wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and unjust and good. Romans 6:14, for sin shall not have dominion over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace.

What then shall we sin because we're not under the law, but under grace? God forbid y'all. Do y'all see this? The same spirit, that same keen eye to say, "Here, Ellen White said this, but here she said that." Why don't you apply that same keen eye to the Bible? Why is context king when it comes to the Bible, but it is not king when it comes to whatever else you read? Let's go back to the screen. Eccles Ecclesiastes 9:5, the dead know nothing. Luke 16:23, in Hades, he was in torment. Let's keep going.

Jude 7, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Malachi 4:1, the day shall come and all shall be as stubble. Acts 16, believe in the Lord Jesus, you shall be saved. Matthew 7:21, not everyone who says, "Lord, Lord," will uh will be saved, but he that doeth the will of God. Number of demoniacs healed. Matthew 28, Matthew 8:28, two demon me two demon-possessed men. Mark 5:2, a man with an impure spirit. Judah's death, Matthew 27 vers5, he went and hanged himself. Acts chapter 1 vers8 he fell headlong his body burst open.

Genesis 6:19 two of every kind were to be brought into the ark. Genesis 7:23 seven pairs of every unclean animal. Jesus last words according to Luke 23:46 father into thy hand I commit my spirit. According to John 19:30 it is finished. According to Matthew 7 27:46 my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The same critic that has a feast day, that has a feast in trying to find how Ellen White contradicts the Bible or how Ellen White contradicts something she says someplace else, literally has not much to say when it comes to these.

Keep that same energy. Matthew 1, Jesus's lineage traced through Solomon. Luke 3, Jesus, Jesus's lineage traced through Nathan. The same anti-contradiction energy that lead you to reject Ellen White, if consistently applied, will also lead you to reject the Bible. Y'all put a one in the chat if you follow me so far. Put a KTSC in the chat if you're following me so so far. The next time the critic says to you, Ellen White plagiarized, you ask the critic, "Hey, what do you say about the uh atheists who say that the Bible is plagiarized?"

And then just let them talk. Just let them talk. Just let them explain why. We got to understand the the the the surroundings and the watch how much rope they how much leniency they give which is exactly what the atheists will say is so cultlike. You Christians are a cult. Beloved, if you're using atheistic principles and atheistic tactics to disprove what we believe as Adventists, you're on the wrong ground. There's an easy way to disprove what we believe as Adventists. There's an acronym for it.

I call it B A. We'll get to it in a moment. You don't need to All of these arguments that are used to lead lead people away from the truth. are. It It blows my mind how we don't see that this is the very thing atheists do with the Bible. Come on, let's keep moving. We got two more and then we're done. Two more and then we're done. Argument number four, energy number four, the anti-controversial statements energy. Ellen White said this. Ellen White said that. Do you know what Ellen White said about bicycles?

Do you know what Ellen White said about this? Or And we just going like, look, can you believe? Can you believe the audacity for her to say this? All right. So, uh, Ellen White made controversial statements. Therefore, she cannot be a prophet of God. I mean, come on. Look at how ridiculous. This is obvious. Keep that same energy. Exodus 21 20 and 21. When a man strikes his slave. Oh, Mr. Atheist, you've got to understand, you see, in ancient Israel, when the word slave was used, like you know what was happening at that time in in ancient Israel.

And and you know, when you think about it, you you got to understand that it wasn't like the the slavery of of and and y'all let's come back for a moment. Y'all do y'all y'all know what I'm saying? So we they just be No, no, no. You got to understand that. I know, Mr. Atheist, that this statement looks bad. I know it looks like what a slave, but you got to understand, which I absolutely agree. You have to understand the context. I agree there is nothing that let me not say nothing. Most things that the skep that that the Adventist critic would argue towards the skeptic I can say yeah you got to be consistent.

You got to you know that argument is is solid. However, why not are why are you inconsistent when it comes to something you don't want to believe? If you expect the atheist to be fair-minded and hear out the details and not come into this with a with a stubborn stunt mind that no matter what you say, I'm not going to believe it. I'm going to defend my atheism till the till the till the death. If you expect the atheist to be honest and sincere in heart and open-minded to see that look when Jesus said this over here and he said this over here or when Paul said this here and then he said this there I know it seems like a contradiction but you got to understand yes just the messenger the the the tone will change you got to understand man you know yo listen man we got to reason together no not the same courtesy when it comes to us saying, "Listen, listen.

When Ellen White said this here, if you take what she says here and you bring them together, then you get the context." No, no, no, no, no. She contradicted herself. I don't want to hear anything else. And that's it. Done. La, back to the screen. When a man strikes his slave with a rod, if the slave survives a day or two, no vengeance shall be taken. Uh you may acquire male and female slaves from the nations, you may be them to your sons after you to inherit as a possession forever. Slaves, obey your earthly master with fear and trembling with a sincere heart as you would with Christ.

Do you know how much of a field day atheists have with these verses? The Bible is a is a is an immoral book. And the critic the critics the SDA the critics of Adventism will sit there and say, "No, you got to get Listen, let me explain. Let me tell you why, Mr. Atheist. Let me explain to you." It's almost like they come to the Bible with a position of innocent until proven guilty. And it will never be proven guilty. Why? Because I believe it. And if I believe it, then it can never be proven guilty.

That's circular reasoning, you guys. This is why this is why I love Adventism because I didn't become a Christian just because, well, there must be a God. No, no, no, no, no. Something had to convince me that the Bible was divine inspired. Something had to convince me that God was actually real and cared about us. And that thing is the very thing God said, "Here's how I want you to test my word." God didn't say God didn't say, "I want you to test my word by seeing if the number of years in this historical account account written by Moses matches the number of years written by that historical account by some."

That's not how God said to test my word. That's not what God said. Here's how you know. See, I'mma come to that. Let me I I I come Let me come back to that. Let me keep moving. Let me keep moving. Come on. Let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen. We're almost there, y'all. A woman should learn in quietness and full submission. I do not permit a woman to teach or to assume authority over a man. She must be quiet. Be quiet in church. Women don't talk. Women should remain silent in the church.

as they want to inquire about something, they should ask their own husbands at home. Whoa. And you Christians think the Bible is a divinely inspired book. This is what the Bible says. And you know what the critics who bla who seek to blast Adventist because Ellen White said this or Ellen White said that. Oh, you got to understand you you got to understand that that in that time what was happening in the churches was and they will go through and explain and go into detail and show listen atheist if you're reasonable then you will understand the context.

I know what it looks like on the surface but you got to understand the context. Why don't you allow that? No. It's just like nope contradiction. Oh wait, but there's context. No, no, no, no, no. that what she said was crazy. Keep that same energy. Keep that same energy. Numbers 31:17 and 18. Kill every male among the little ones, but all the young girls keep alive for yourself. Deuteronomy 21:10-14, "When you see a beautiful woman among captives and desire, you may take her as your wife." Can you imagine if Ellen White said any of this?

Can you imagine how the how the a how this advent skeptic would have that all over the internet. But you don't want to keep that same energy when it comes to the Bible. You're just like, "Oh, you know what? Well, we're all Christians. So, as all Christians, we're not going to look at the hard parts of the Bible because we already you don't have the answer for it. I don't have the answer for it, but you know, we're just going to wink our eyes." No, no, no. Just like you didn't want to wink your eyes being an Adventist, I couldn't just close my eyes to the discrepancies.

Do the same thing with the Bible. Do the same thing. Be consistent. KT S, but you will not Kts E because you know if you KT E, you're going to walk away from the Bible and you don't want to walk away from the Bible. So, you would rather just live in your mind with the with the inconsistencies and the contradictions, but you you couldn't do that. You had to follow the Lord when it came to Ellen White. You couldn't you had to be genuine and honest. And I'm not mocking. Please don't. But I'm just I'm just trying to emphasize you had to be genuine and honest with yourself.

And you had to you had to walk away. But if you walked away because of those things and you apply the same thing to the Bible, walk away from it because the same things exist in the Bible. Walk and I'm not telling you, I don't want you to walk away from it. I'm just saying the energy that you applied in this case is the wrong type of energy. And if you consistently use that energy, it will lead you to ultimately walk away from the Bible. And and interestingly enough, Ellen White said something about that.

Isn't that crazy? We'll get to that in a moment. Let's keep going. We're almost done. You shall not make any cuts or on your body for the dead or tattoo yourselves. I am the Lord. What? Tattoos? Really? Really? The Bible said not to put tattoos on yourself. Really? That's what the atheist gonna say. This is your book. This is your divinely inspired book. Come on. How about this one? It is impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come if they shall fall away to renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucify to themselves the son of God and put him to an open shame.

You mean to tell me that if a person sins after they become a Christian that they have fallen away and they cannot repent anymore? If if Ellen White wrote that in her own words, the critics would be all over it. But you know what they did when they come to Hebrews 6 vers 4-6? Well, you know, you got to understand the context. And I agree, there is a context. There is a context. You got to understand the context to understand what the text is saying. I know some of you e even among Adventists right now, some of you like, I've never seen some of this stuff before.

Beloved, listen to me. None but those who have fortified their minds, let's come back for a moment to the screen. None but those who have fortified their minds with the truths of God's word will stand through the last great crisis. When the atheist attacks your faith, your belief, beloved, you have to know why you believe what you when they present all these all these the same people that walked away from Adventism when presented with this stuff. Guess what? You going to walk away from the Bible.

Well, I saw that the I didn't know that Ellen White wrote Desire of Ages and that sentence came from that author. If she's a prophet, then how could she? But guess what, y'all? That's a that's the that's such the wrong approach to arriving at truth because if you do that with Ellen White, if that was able to get you to leave, what do you think is going to happen when the atheist pushes on you? Look at these verses. Look at this plagiarism. Look at these contradictions in the Bible. Look at these tough sayings in the Bible.

Look at these false prophecies in the Bible. It will be hypocritical of you to remain a Christian while you walked away from Adventism for the very same reasons. Let's go back to the screen. The same anti-controversial statements energy that led you to reject Ellen White, if consistently applied, will also lead you to reject the Bible. You sure you want to keep that same energy? Are you sure you want to keep that same All right, so we're gonna go to that last one. Last energy must warn against false prophets energy.

Ellen White is a false prophet and it is our duty to make YouTube video after YouTube video after YouTube video to warn against false prophets. But here's a problem with that. Keep that same energy. Keep that same energy. It's interesting how you got all these prophets today. Kim Clement, Lance Wallnau, Dutch Seats, Chuck Pierce. I'm not going to name just Just think about all the other modernday prophets today. Where are your videos about these Where are your warnings against all these people? Have you searched them?

Have you checked them out? Why? Why the attention on just Ellen White? Why all the attention? Is there only one prophet, one quote unquote false prophet that you know of that you got to divert your whole ministry and your whole life and your whole livelihood and everything? You know how many quote unquote so-called prophets are walking around right now? Where the where are the warnings? Where are the warnings? If you kept that same energy because here's a false prophet, therefore we must make videos about about this false prophet.

What about all the or is it is it just none of these are false prophets? Everybody is cool except Ellen White. That begins to make me feel a little bit suspicious. A little bit suspicious. H Ellen White is the only false prophet. You know, you think she's a false prophet and that's it. And all of all the prophets today, the whole NRA movement with all these thousands of false prophets on YouTube and all over and and all we see all your whole anger, your whole ministry is just dedicated to one of these so-called false prophets.

Where is the concern for all the other people who are following these people? Have you researched their sermons? Maybe your concern isn't really about false prophets, is it? Maybe there's just a need to vindicate why you left and make yourself feel like you did the right thing. So, you just got to keep coming back and coming back and coming back and like, "Okay, here's why." instead of maybe going out and all right, I'm gonna go evangelize to to the rest of the world and just talk about Jesus since that's what I, you know, that's what we didn't do in Adventism.

So, I'm just going to talk about Jesus. No, I'm going to I got to focus on that one prophet. Forget about all the other prophets. I'm not even going to research them. I mean, you know why? It's not going to get it's not going to get views. Where are the videos? Where are the videos about all the prophets? Prophets talking about angels, angels in Africa, the African angels, the Mexican angels. Where are Where are all the videos about So the same must warn against false prophets energy that leads you to reject Ellen White if consistently applied would also lead you to focus on others who claim to have the prophetic gift.

But we don't see that, do we? We don't see that. And that's a strange thing. That's a strange thing. Yeah. Where are the critics when these other prophets prophesy what's going to happen and how the Israel and where are where where are the critics then? So, let's go back to the screen as we as we begin to wrap this up. We've covered the five energies and we've seen that keeping that same energy is really not a good thing to do because that same energy will lead you to walk away from the Bible. And that fifth energy is just showing your inconsistency.

Listen, how do we apply consistent standards? If we dismiss Ellen White for using outside sources, we should also apply the same standard to biblical writers who drew from ancient texts. If we if we if Ellen White's unfulfilled prophecies discredit her, we must judge biblical prophets with with conditional predictions by the same measure. If we appar if apparent contradictions in Ellen White's writings undermine her authority, similar tensions in the Bible should raise equal concerns. If we dismiss based upon hard statements, we should then dismiss the Bible.

If we have a burden to warn against false prophets, then that burden should be universal and not singular. Honest scholarship, honesty requires consistency. The same context and understanding we give to scripture, we should extend to all claimed prophetic writings. So what are the double standards? You'll condemn Ellen White for using external sources, but wink and I if the Bible does it. No, I didn't even say when the Bible does it. I just said if the Bible does it. You'll try to find a reason why.

No, no, no. It's not borrowed. Oh, but you will do your best to defend to give the the the Bible the benefit of the doubt. And you think, oh, well, that's a Christian thing to do. But no, no, no, no. The atheist doesn't think that. The atheist thinks you're being blind. The atheist thinks you're being cultic. You're being brainwashed by your leaders, by your pastors. You reject Ellen White for apparent failed prophecies, yet trust the Bible despite alleged fail prophecies. You discredit Ellen White for alleged alleged contradictions in her writings, yet you wink an eye when it comes to the Bible.

Uh, you mock Ellen White for hard statements, yet you try to explain away the hard statements of the Bible. You criticize Ellen White all over the place and are silent when it comes to to to all the other so-called prophets that are alive today. the inconsistency, the the hippocritics of YouTube. This is the hypocrisy. And it is stunning. It is mindblowing. So the question is, how then should we test a prophet? I'm not saying don't test a prophet. I'm just saying how then should we test a prophet.

Yeah. And it's simple, y'all. It's simple. To the law and to the testimony. If they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. That's how we test a prophet. We don't test a prophet by whether they borrowed. We don't test a prophet by did she did the prophet say something hard. We don't test a prophet by does it look like there's a contra. We test a prophet by this. Do they speak according to the law and the testimony? That's how you test a prophet. What are they teaching?

Yes, their lifestyle obviously. Are they living? Watch this. Are they living according to the law and to the testimony? But yet you want to say there's no law. You want to say there's no law. So, how can you test a prophet if you don't even obey the law? How can you test a prophet if you're not even in the place to test a prophet? You're not even li You're You're not even How can you test a prophet with something that you do not believe doesn't exist? You do not believe exists. Here's the weirdest thing to me.

of all the prophets today, right? The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 4:32, "The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets." Y'all want to know what that means? It's very simple. Any prophet that came after Moses had to be in line with Moses. Any prophet that came after a prophet that came after Moses had to be in line with that prophet and with Moses. So every prophet that comes on the scene later and later and later has a greater burden to be in line with all the prophets before them. Why?

Because the spirit of the prophets are subject to the prophets. A future prophet cannot override or cannot uh uh cannot uh contradict a former prophet. So so so Jeremiah would have been subject to Moses. Daniel would have been subject to Moses. John the revelator would have been subject to Daniel and Jeremiah and Moses. The spirit is not going to contradict itself. So then if every prophet had a greater burden of falling in line with all the prophets that came before them, then it's very simple.

If a modern-day prophet arises, we just got to ask a question. Do they fall in line with all the prophets before them? And how would we know that? To the law and to the testimony. That's how you know that. That's how we know if a prophet is really a prophet. Because the prophet is going to speak on is going to to be in line with previous revelation. So what does that mean? What does that mean for us today? Here's what it means. Any prophet, any so-called prophet that does not understand the work of the last prophet is not a prophet.

Done deal. If the last biblical prophet was John the Revelator, then any prophet that comes after him must be in line with what John the Revelator said. And if a prophet, it amazes me how many of these modern-day prophets will be like, "Oh, God's given me a word for you. God's given me a word for you." "Yeah, I'm a prophet." And I'll be like, "Can you explain the book of Revelation to me?" Well, hold on. What? Well, well, how are you a prophet and you don't understand Revelation? understand the work of the last prophet?

And in order order to understand the work of the last prophet John the revelator, you must also understand the work of the prophet Daniel. Which means then that any modernday prophet that does not understand the teachings of Daniel and Revelation is not a modernday prophet. So now take your Joseph Smith, take your modern day prophets, take any prophet you want and take Ellen White. And how are we going to test whether these are prophets or not? Well, let's just see. How do they line up with Daniel and Revelation?

Who can explain? Yeah. Okay. Visions. All right. We're told that there's going to be false visions. Uh uh miracles. All right. We're going to we're told they're going to be false miracles. So, let's not even look at at Ellen White holding up a Bible above her head. Let's not look at her not breathing because for all we know, that might be satanic. Satan has the power to do miracles. But one thing Satan cannot do is tell the truth. So let's take Ellen White and then let's take all these modern day prophets and let's take Joseph Smith and let's take this prophet here and that prophet here and let's look at their let's not look at oh did they contradict themselves?

Oh, did they borrow? No, no, no, no. That that's all garbage, y'all. Those are all atheistic methods of trying to disprove the Bible. Why would we use atheistic methods to apply to the Bible and for that matter to apply to Ellen White? Oh, look, there's a contradiction. Oh, look, it's a hard saying. No, no, no. The atheist mind does not understand how the word of God operates. And unfortunately, many Christian minds do not understand how the word of God operates. So, let's talk about that for a second before we wrap this up.

Come on. So there are two views of inspiration in the Bible. There is thought inspiration where God inspires the thoughts rather than dictating exact words allowing for human expression and cultural context. And then there is verbal inspiration where where those who believe verbal inspiration believe that God dictated the exact words of scripture to the writers. Every word is directly inspired and selected by God. Now watch this. Come back for a moment. This is why. See, for the Muslim, listen to me y'all.

For the Muslim, the Quran is the word of God because in their minds, God dictated the exact words to Muhammad. So they believe in verbal inspiration. The reason they believe the Bible cannot be inspired is because look at all the translations. How can you translate the word of God? If God gave the Bible then it how these translations are are changing the words and if the words are changed then how can it be the word of God? And unfortunately beloved most Christians take that view. And so you will see Christians trying to defend.

I know it says in this verse that there were two demoniacs and in that verse there was one demoniac. But then they have to they have to for themselves prove that that oh well here's why it's not because they're they believe that the word that the exact words on the page two versus one must be divinely inspired. beloved? We do not believe that God in if God wanted to dictate the words. He He wrote the Ten Commandments himself. God could have written the Bible himself, but he didn't. He spoke through individuals who had freedom of choice and they chose their own words to express the thought.

It's the thought that was inspired, not the exact word Moses wrote. So the word and and the word is, those words aren't inspired. Humans wrote the Bible and humans are imperfect. And that's why you will find imperfections in the Bible. But that does not make the word of God less divine because beloved the the divinity is not in the words. The divinity is in the concepts given in the Bible. So when I explain to you the love of God from my own perspective because I said it in words different from the next person doesn't mean that it is less inspired.

the concept of of Jesus dying for our sins and the lamb slain from the foundation of the world and God sending down his son. It is the concept that that God is is giving to humanity. And when you understand that the Bible is thought inspired, when you see one author say this and another author say that and they're writing from their different perspectives. Now you're not you okay a author borrowed from someone else. It's the thought that's inspired. In fact, let me say it this way. When you take someone else's sentence, someone else's thought on a particular thing and if you just copy that entire thought, put it, let me say it this way.

The critics love to say that Ellen White plagiarized. If she plagiarized, I would ask this question. Show me one other author that has the great controversy theme in their writings. If all her ideas are borrowed, show me, watch this, y'all. Show me what other If her ideas were borrowed, then she would be reflecting the very principles, the very thoughts that these other authors reflect. But guess what? You can't find it anywhere, can you? How are the critics on one hand going to be like, you know what, these teachings are so unorthodox, but yet, oh, but she plagiarized.

Really? Oh, you mean she took an idea from here and and put it in her own context in a totally different paradigm? How you going to accuse somebody of plagiarizing and then say, "Oh, but their ideas don't match up with the person that they plagiarized." Seriously. Like for all this talk of plagiarism, you would surely think that you could find the entire great controversy theme in some other book, some other place. But no, they accuse Adventists of being so unorthodox in the things that we believe and how we believe it and how we look at the Bible.

Huh? How do those two things go together? Help me to understand. You see beloved once you come from a place where you are are trying to prove something wrong it doesn't matter what anybody says after that you're on a track you got an energy now and the energy is prove this wrong at all costs. So when we understand that it is thought inspiration and not verbal inspiration, then we're not going through reasons of trying to defend why one said one demon and the other said two. It's not that important.

with the theme of salvation that God has placed in the Bible. God's truth cannot be altered. But you could tr you could translate the Bible in different words and some people translate it better than others. Some translations are good and some translations are not good. And yet the critics will read all those Bibles. Be like, "Oh, well, you know, this translation is a little bit better than this one." You know what that says? If the words themselves were inspired, it would be a sin to translate the Bible because now you're messing with the words of God.

Inspired writers remain human with limitations in knowledge and expression that don't negate the divine origin or core of their message. Ellen White was Paul was human. Moses was human. Jeremiah human. David Imperfect people wrote the Bible. And if imperfect people wrote the Bible, we may expect to find imperfections in the Bible. That does not mean that there are imperfections in God's truth because God's truth is unassailable. The Bible teaches that when the dead die, they nothing. They know nothing.

The Bible teaches that there will be a judgment before Jesus comes again. The Bible. So if you want to test whether whether someone is teaching the truth or not, you don't look for contradictions or oh they got this historical fact wrong by a day or by a month or no no no no. You ask a simple question. Are they teaching according to the Bible? Bible all day. And so our critics love to try to try to say, "Oh, look at Ellen." They want you to focus on Ellen White because when it comes to a straight up Bible only discussion, well, well, no matter what you say, well, you're just getting that from Ellen, but I'm just showing you Bible.

No, well, you're getting that from Ellen White's interpretation of the Bible. See, and it just it's like, wow. It's almost like you're talking to an atheist. Okay, I got three more slides. You can probably see it on the screen. Four more slides. Check this out, y'all. Very interesting statement. While God has given ample evidence for faith, he will never remove all excuse for unbelief. All who look for hooks to hang their doubts upon will find them. And those who refuse to accept and obey God's word until every objection has been removed and there is no longer an opportunity for doubt will never come to the light.

Courtesy, Ellen White. If you're looking for doubts, you'll So the same way you were looking for doubts without a white, go ahead and apply that same principle to the Bible. And guess what? You're going to begin to see, oh, wait a minute. Atheists and skeptics are saying that this story was barred from this. And there are 16 crucified saviors before Jesus was even born. And and the trinity was was pagan and and and the Genesis story. And and beloved, guess what? And guess what? What's going to happen is if you're consistent with that same energy, you're gonna walk away from the Bible.

There was a statement I always read that I was like, "Well, why would she say that?" And now I get it. Here it is. It is Satan's plan to weaken the faith of God's people in the testimonies. Satan knows how to make his attack. He works upon minds to excite jealousy and dissatisfaction towards those at the head of the work. Interesting, huh? It's always Wow. Oh my Lord have mercy. He works upon minds to excite jealousy and dis dissatisfaction towards those who are at the head of the work. Be careful, y'all.

Be careful of how you speak about those at the head of the work. The gifts are next questioned. Then of course they have but little weight and instruction given through vision is disregarded. Watch this y'all. Next follows skepticism in regard to the vital points of our faith, the pillars of our position, then doubt as to the holy scriptures, and then the downward march to predition. Do y'all see this? She literally says, "If you doubt the testimonies, walking away from the Bible itself." And I would wonder why would she say that?

it's not because the testimonies are more important than the Bible. That's not what she was saying. What you're saying is it is the doubt. The doubt in truths proven by the word of God. When you begin to get that seed planted in your mind and you apply that to the testimonies, which we believe are divinely inspired, not Ellen White's words verbatim, but the thoughts God gave to her were inspired. She knew how to take thoughts from other sources and package them into a unique picture, a unique paradigm that no one else has.

But when you doubt, and why do you doubt? Oh, I saw I noticed copying here. Oh, I noticed uh what looks like a contradiction here. Oh. Oh, this must be a false prophecy. Oh, oh, uh, uh, here's a hard saying. That same spirit, if you are being consistent, is going to lead you out of Christianity altogether. And the reason why people are aren't leaving Christianity is because they're not being consistent. They are being hypocritical. So, which is better? Which is better? Walking out or being hypocritical and staying in?

So you guys, let me just read these off and then we're going to close out in prayer. The higher standard dilemma. Critics apparently hold Ellen White to a higher standard than they do the Bible. A isn't that something else? The critics of Adventism apply apply a higher standard to themselves person for themselves personally. They apply a higher standard. They hold Ellen White to a higher standard than they do the Bible. And yet they claim that we are the ones that hold Ellen White to a higher standard than we do the Bible.

The same critical method that would discredit Ellen White would equally undermine biblical authority if applied consistently. Critics often accept explanations for biblical difficulties that they reject when applied to Ellen White's writings. Demanding perfect originality, literal fulfillment, and absolute consistency from Ellen White while allowing flexibility in biblical interpretation reveals a problematic bias. Are y'all with me? So, what are the principles for consistent evaluation? One, consider historical, cultural, and literary context for both biblical and modern prophetic writings.

Focus on the spiritual purpose and message rather than demanding technical perfection. Interpret difficult passages in the light of the writer's entire body of work, not in isolation. Approach apparent contradictions with a willingness to seek harmonization rather than immediately rather than immediate dismissal. Ain't that fair? Conclusion, y'all. You want to be able to keep that same Negative energy will lead to error disguised as truth. Positive energy will lead to truth. Positive energy demands consistent standards of evaluation for all claimed prophetic writings, the Quran, the Bible, everything.

Be consistent. Be consistent. Recognize the human element in divine communication while affirming the inspired message. Focus on the fruits and purpose of prophetic ministry rather than isolated criticisms. and neither uncritical uncritically ex neither uncritically accepts all claims nor dismisses genuine prophetic guidance. It's that simple, y'all. It's that simple. They are literally doing the same thing they accuse Adventists of doing. They are exalting Ellen White, applying a higher standard to her than they do the Bible.

So listen y'all. Let I'm concluding with this thought. Let's come back come back to the screen. Concluding with this thought you you guys. I keep the same energy. I have the the same energy when it comes to the Bible. I got that same energy when I'm reading Ellen White. And I don't change energies. I don't have to change energies. I got that same if I'm investigating the Quran. I got the same energy. I have the same energy. I'm consistent. And because when I approach the Bible, I'm looking at context.

I'm looking at yeah, that others will think this is a contradiction, but in actuality, if you look at the context, you're going to see that it's not a contradiction. and and and and and places where where where this factor is off or that factor is off. That does not affect the big picture of the Bible because the Bible is not verbally inspired. It is thought inspired. Men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. They were moved by the Holy Ghost. The men were inspired and they wrote to express their thoughts in their own words.

So, as I look at the Bible and and I and I and I see comparisons between other sources outside the Bible, oh, there's a Genesis story there. Why are there Genesis stories all over? Oh, maybe because Genesis actually happened. Maybe there are so many Genesis stories from different sources. Maybe that might be an evidence. How are How are all these people saying the same thing? So, as I'm looking at the Bible, and I don't believe the Bible is is is divine because I have to believe it. I believe the Bible is divine because I have studied it out.

And so these when these atheists throw these things, oh, what about this that that listen y'all? Can we focus on what makes the Bible divine? Let me show you something. Come with me to the book of Daniel and let me have you explain this. Come with me to the book of Revelation and let me show you what's happening in America right now and you tell me of another book on the planet that does what the Bible does. I have no these things don't phase me. And so when I take that same energy and put it towards the writings of Ellen White, oh what she says matches exactly with Daniel and Revelation.

And beloved, let me tell you something. If you don't understand Daniel and Revelation, how can you even open your mouth to critique If you don't even understand Daniel and Revelation for yourself, how can you open your mouth to critique the prophet? If they're speaking on Revelation, if if if we're testing them by what the last prophet said, how can you even open your mouth if you don't understand what the book says? And so, you know what God is saying in all that? Study the Bible for yourself. And when you study the Bible and when you understand the truth of the Bible, you will then be able to determine false prophet versus true prophet.

But you have no business, oh that's a false prophet, when you can't even break down the book. You don't even understand what the last prophet says. How are you going to judge what this person is saying when you don't understand the last prophet for yourself? How does a skeptic respond to this challenge? Not by telling me, "Oh, well, Ellen White, no, no, no, no, no. I already know everything you say about Ellen White. I don't need to hear more. I already know what the atheists and the skeptics says about the Bible.

I don't need to hear more. I know their arguments and I know your arguments. What I'm saying to you, Seventh Day skeptic, skeptic, critic of the Seventh Day Adventist Church, critic of Ellen White, is keep the same energy. That's all. And if you think that keeping the same energy will be safe for you when it comes to the Bible, you're in serious trouble. Because whatever energy you put into trying to prove that the Bible is still the word of God, you should have put that same energy into any other work that claimed that it's the word of God, not the word of God that claimed that it is divinely inspired by God.

Please excuse, excuse me, that claim that it is divinely inspired by God. If it's a Quran and someone's saying, "Hey, the Quran is a word of God." Okay, let's test it. I'm not going to go to the Quran be like, "No, it's not." No, let's test it. Cuz if I walk away saying the Quran is not the word of God, I'll be able to tell you why. Not because, "Oh, it's a contradiction here or there." I'm not judging on that. I'm not judging on, "Oh, was there a mistake here?" The Muslims might judge it like that.

I'm not judging it like that. Because if I judge their book like that, I got to judge my book like that. Be All right, that's it y'all. That's a wrap. Uh I hope this message today forgot to drink my water. I hope uh I hope for those of you who have been struggling how do I answer the critics struggling you know maybe struggling with Ellite I hope that tonight's message tonight's study has opened your eyes to understand things a little bit better so y'all put a one in the chat I just want to see put a one in the chat you know the higher the number, the the the the better you receive this.

So, if you put a 10 in the chat, I'm going be like, "Okay, yeah, y'all got this." You put a nine, you put a eight, don't I hope nobody puts a one. But listen, we have not believed cunningly devised fables. And if a if if a thousand people leave the church today, please y'all do not truth is never in numbers. Truth is never in numbers. You need to think. You need to ask God for wisdom. And do not let the devil outsmart you. Cuz that's what he's trying to do. The devil was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remn of her seed.

He's not making war with any of these other billions of prophets walking around saying, "God showed me. God gave me a word for you." No war with them. But there sure seems to be a calculated and concentrated assault. Why? Ask yourself that question. Why? Heavenly Father, thank you for tonight. Thank you for your word. Thank you, Lord, for showing us that our truths stand on the Bible. Thank you for showing us, Lord, that that the same spirit that the skeptics use towards Ellen White is what atheists use towards the Bible.

Literally, it is the exact spirit. Lord, speak and let these people know they do not know what manner of spirit they are of. Open their eyes. Open their hearts. And Lord, help us to be wiser than the enemy's plots, wiser than the enemy's attacks upon your church. Please Lord, solidify us in the truth. Solidify us on your word is our prayer in Jesus name. And I pray for any who who have walked away, maybe watching this presentation, have walked away. I pray Lord that you would bring them back into the fold, whether they are known or unknown.

Lord, help them to see they they left based on a lie. They left based on things that would cause them to leave the Bible itself if they're Please Lord, open their eyes. Bring them back into the truth is my prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Thank you everyone. Um good study tonight. I agree. And may God bless you and keep you as you continue uh to study his word and to walk in truth. Amen.