Amen. And happy Sabbath everyone. Um I want to welcome you to Living Mana Online Church. We are getting ready to get into the word of God today. And I pray that uh today's message will speak to your heart in a very special special way. So, uh, today's message is entitled I Unfriend You: Satan's Dehumanization Plot for the End Times. Pray with me, please. Heavenly Father, we ask in a special way, Lord, that you would please speak through me today. Lord, please open the eyes of your people. And Lord, help us to know not only what is the enemy's plan, but what is your plan for us as well.

And Lord, may we follow that plan is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. I unfriend you. Satan's dehum dehumanization plot for the end times. That phrase I unfriend you is a very familiar phrase especially in our social media um saturated world. Uh we unfriend people uh if we don't like what someone has said. We unfriend people if we feel that they have come at us in a in a wrong way. And it is not something limited to social media. It is something that is happening all the time. I unfriend you. I want to take that particular theme, that particular thought, and I want to trace something through the Bible for you that by the grace of God, you will you will have the curtains pulled back to see what the enemy's plan is for God's people, especially as it relates to the end of time.

So, let's go to the screen. We're going to begin with John chapter 15. John chapter 15, verse 12. Jesus said these words, "This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do whatsoever I command you." You can see here that Jesus puts a high value on friendship and he connects friendship with love. He says, "Greater love has no man than this than a man is willing to lay his life down for his friends."

Friendship in God's eyes is connected with love. Now, what I want to show you, beloved, requires us to go back to the book of Genesis, uh, when God is is is creating the world, and we're going to look at Genesis chapter 1, uh, particularly verse 24. In verse 24, the Bible says these words. And God said, "Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle and creeping things, and the beast of the earth after his kind." And it was so. And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and everything that creepeth upon the earth after his kind.

And God saw that it was good. Now, Genesis 1:es 24 and 25 are speaking to God's creating of the beasts of the earth. And immediately after he creates the beast of the earth, the text now goes on to say these words. Verse 26. And God said, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth." So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him.

Male and female created he them. Verse 28. And God blessed them. And God said unto them, "Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the of the over every living thing that moveth upon the earth." What I want you to understand here is that there is a difference between the creation of beast and the creation of man. Man was made in the image of God. Beasts were not made in the image of God. Put a one in the chat that if you're following so far, very simple point.

When God made beasts, they were not made in the image of God. But when he made when God made beasts, they were not in the image of God. But when he made man, they were in the image of God. Now, what does it mean that we were made in the image of God? Um, and beasts were not. Well, notice with me John chapter 1, 1 John 1:4, where the Bible says these words, "He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love." If God is love and man was made in the image of God, then what that means is man was made with this beautiful capacity to love.

It is something that beasts do not possess. Beasts don't know how to love. Beasts don't know how to have empathy. Beasts don't know the qualities of a human life. And so, man was made specifically in the image of God. meaning man was made huh uh with the capacity to love. So let's get that straight. The beasts had no capacity to love. Man was made with a capacity to love. Now the Bible says something interesting in Genesis chapter 3. After God has created man tells man not to eat from the tree. In Genesis 3:1 the Bible says these words.

Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, "Yay, has God said, 'Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden." So now we have the introduction of this serpent whom we understand to be Satan. But this serpent is described as a beast. That is significant. Uh uh the Bible tells us as the story continues on that that Adam and Eve ultimately listen to this beast and they eat from the tree. And now God is going to come to them in the garden and God is going to speak to Adam, to Eve and the beast.

And I want you to notice what he says in Genesis 3:14. The Bible says here, "And the Lord God said unto the serpent." So now he's talking to the serpent. Because you have done this, you are cursed above all cattle and above every beast of the field. Upon thy belly shalt thy go shalt thou go. And dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. And now watch this next verse. Verse 15. And I will put enmity between thee, that is the serpent, this beast, and the woman. So, we've got two categories here being cursed.

The beast I I shouldn't say being cursed, but two categories that God is speaking to here in this verse. The beast and the woman. A and in verse 15, he says, "I will put enmity between thee, that is the beast, and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed." That's very important to understand you guys because what the text is telling us here is that the beast itself would have offspring. In other words, this offspring of the beast would would would represent the seed of the beast. It would be beast seed.

So in this in this uh h uh prophecy you have offspring of the beast and you have offspring of the woman. One is animal, one is human. Now we understand that that that what is being spoken about here in the context of both of these seed are human beings. But please note the significance. One set of human beings are going to be beastly and the other set of human beings are going to be human. Human heart versus beast heart. Human characteristics. Characteristics made in the image of God versus beastly characteristics.

And so what I want you to see here is this. In John chapter 3, 1 John chapter 3 11, we're going to see something very powerful here. Before we go there, remember this that Eve's first child is Cain. And and Cain, we know, comes to represent the seed of the beast. Even though he's born of Eve, he's actually the seed of the beast. meaning his character, his disposition was very beastlike, animallike. And notice with me 1 John 3:1, where the Bible says, "For this is the message you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain."

No, watch this now, guys. Watch. See the parallel here. Love is of God. And then it the text goes on to say not like Cain or not as Cain. And watch this. Who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. See that connection there? Cain hate. God love. The text literally says Cain was of the wicked one. Let's go to the screen and you'll see that that word of in the Greek is simply X meaning out of a primary preposition denoting origin, an action proceeding from or out of a place.

In other words, beloved, what the text is saying is that Cain was of or proceeded from the serpent. He was serpent seed. Y'all put a one on the tell if you're following so far. Abel represented the seed of the righteous. Cain represented the seed of the wicked. He was animalistic. Cain was animal seed. In other words, if we can say it this way, Cain represents those made, listen carefully to me all, Cain represents those made in the image of the beast, while Abel would represent those made in the image of God.

Put a five in the chat if you're following so far. Put a five in the chat if you're following so far. Now, I want you to notice the nature of beasts. In Psalms 80:13, for example, God is here describing uh how Israel is his vine and what's going to happen to his vine. And he says here in verse 13, "The bore out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it." Talking about devouring God's people. Beasts devour. Beasts kill. Beasts act off of instinct. Notice with me Job chapter 38:39.

Wilt thou hunt to prey for the lion or fill the appetite of the young lions when they couch in their dens and abide in the covert to lie and wait? The nature of a beast is to hunt, is to pounce, is to look for something to devour. Y'all put a one in the chat if you're following. Put a one in the chat if you're following. The nature of the beast is to look for something to devour. In other words, let me say it this way. When Cain adopted or took on the nature of the beast, he was dehumanized. Put a six in the chat.

Six in the chat. Pastor, we get you. We're following you. Cain was dehumanized. He didn't take on the image of God. He took on the image of the beast. And in taking on the image of the beast, he was dehumanized. How do we know this? If we go back to Genesis 4:5, uh the Bible says, "But unto Cain," so remember Cain and Abel both bring an offering unto God. And the Bible says, "But unto Cain, and to his offering, God had not respect, and Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell." The single indicator of reflecting the image of the beast is wrath is anger.

Cain became angry. It is the sign. It is the first signal. It is the first characteristic of those who have the image of the Cain gets angry and his anger is now going to be directed somewhere. You see, in Ephesians chapter 6:12, we're told this, "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places." God's people, those who walk in the image of God, recognize this crucial truth that we wrestle not against flesh and blood.

In other words, flesh and blood is not the real enemy. You should never look at any any human being and think that human being is my enemy. Flesh and blood is my enemy. The Bible says that the spiritual understand that flesh and blood is not the enemy. We don't wrestle against flesh and blood. But note what Cain does. Come with me to Genesis chapter 4:6. The Lord said unto Cain, "Why art thou wroth, and why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? And if thou doest not well, sin lith at the door."

Some translations say, "Sin crouches at the door." So now God is using animal language. Sin like a beast is wanting to pounce on you, Cain. But Cain, I want you to rule over this thing. Understand, Cain, that your enemy is not your brother. Your enemy is not your brother. It would have been a beautiful thing if this guy by the name of Tyler, I don't remember his last name, if he understood that as off as he may have thought Charlie Kirk was, that it was not flesh and blood, flesh and blood was not his enemy.

But he didn't understand that truth. Let me tell you something. Dehumanized people dehumanize people. In order, listen to me y'all. In order for the devil to have his way in the human soul, he must first dehumanize. And when he dehumanizes, the dehumanized person has no problem dehumanizing people. And when you dehumanize people, the people themselves become your enemy. You no longer realize that we wrestle against flesh and blood. So now you see flesh and blood as the enemy. And the single, the single most evident sign that you are in the image of the beast is when you see individuals as the enemy.

Come on, let's go back to the story. Remember 1st Peter 5:8. The Bible says, "Your your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour." This is what God is trying to warn Cain of Cain. Listen, sin is crouching at your door. Don't let the beast in. Don't dehumanize yourself, Cain. Don't allow yourself to be dehumanized. But Cain did not listen. And what he does, what does he do in essence? He says to Abel, "I unfriend you. You are the enemy and I unfriend you." The Bible says in Genesis 4:8, "And Cain talked with Abel his brother.

And it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him. And the Lord said unto Cain, "Where is Abel thy brother?" And he said, "I know not. Am I my brother's keeper?" Please see how the dehumanization of Cain led him to be like, "Why should I care about my brother? Why should I care about him?" The evidence that Cain was the seed of the beast was that Cain was dehumanized. His brother died and he could have cared less. his brother died and it didn't matter to him.

You might say, "Who is my brother?" We'll hold that question for a moment because you think certainly not my enemy. My enemy is not my brother for sure not. But beloved, I'm trying to tell you something that Satan's plot for the end of time is to dehumanize the entire planet. And the way that he's going to do that is through wrath. Cain's countenance fell. He was wroth. He was angry. The devil's goal is to turn men from the image of God into the image of the beast. And if he can turn you into the image of the beast through wrath, listen to me.

In order for you to be dehumanized, he's got to remove love from your heart. And once love has been removed from your heart, wrath takes its place. And when wrath takes its place, you have been dehumanized. And dehumanized people dehumanize people. We see this even in the time of Jesus in chapter in Luke chapter 6. Luke chapter 6 verse 9. The Bible says, "Then said Jesus unto them, speaking to the Pharisees, I will ask you one thing. Is it lawful on the Sabbath days to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it?

And looking around upon them all, he said unto the man, "Stretch forth thine hand?" And he did so, and his hand was restored whole as the other. And they, watch this, the leaders were filled with madness. You know what madness is? It's wrath. They became beastlike and commune one with another what they might do to Jesus. In other words, they wanted to kill him just like Cain. They were filled with wrath, with madness. Jesus, we unfriend you. Not that they were ever his friend. We unfriend you. It is interesting.

Jesus one time speaking to the to the Pharisees said unto them in John 8:43, "Why do you not understand my speech even because you cannot hear my word? You are of your father, the devil." Do you remember what we said earlier about the word of x out of Jesus is literally saying you proceeded from your father the devil. You even though you're a Pharisee even though you claim to be God's people even though you claim to be the seed of the woman you are a descendant of the serpent in the garden. You are a descendant of a beast.

You are of your father the devil and the lust of your father you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning. Wow. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own for he is a liar and the father of it. So I want you to understand now that the reason Jesus said to them, you can't understand my words, is because beasts don't understand words. Beasts only react off of instinct. You you can't talk to a dog and say you know you know dog um I was wondering the other day I mean you could say come and sure they get that lie okay they get that very simple you cannot have a conversation with a beast there's no talking to a beast a beast is just not going to hear you a beast is just not going to understand notice with me Psalm 32:9 be ye not as the horse or as the mule which have no understanding.

There's a reason why God said why Jesus said to them, "You don't understand my words because you're of the f you're of your father." Your father was the serpent. Beasts can't understand words. In 2 Peter chapter 2:12, but these as natural brute beasts made to be taken and destroyed speak evil of things that they understand not. Jude 1:10, but these speak evil of things which they knew not. But they were n but they know naturally as but what they know naturally as brute beasts in those things they corrupt themselves.

Please understand this concept of the brute beast of the beast that cannot hear the gospel. God says love your neighbor and you can't hear that. You can't understand that. It doesn't compute. You're like sure I love my neighbor but who is my neighbor? My neighbor is represent those in my camp. My neighbor represents those who believe like I believe. My neighbor represents those who like the same things I like. Surely those are my neighbors, Lord. You must understand that. And it's like Jesus saying, "You are like a beast.

You can't understand when I say love your neighbor." Who is my neighbor, Lord? Oh, it's those who believe like I do. It's those that are on my side. Notice what 1 John chapter 3:15 says. Who whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. Please listen to me. You don't have to murder someone to murder someone. And to hate someone means you've already murdered them. You may not you may not be able to get a hold of a long gun rifle and be able to time on climb on top of a roof and sit there and wait for your hated target to come.

But just because you never have the opportunity doesn't mean the thing isn't in your heart. You might say to yourself, "Oh yeah, I'd never do that." But I need you to understand, beloved, that the beast image, the beast heart is deceptive beyond measure. And so the devil understands that sure you may not pull the trigger, you may not go out and grab the knife, but he knows if he can at least get you to hate, you are or you are as good as a murderer. You are demonstrating the seed of the serpent.

You're you just need to be wroth. That's all that's all he requires. That's all he wants. just so you could be wroth. Ecclesiastes 3:18, the Bible says, "I set in my heart concerning the estates of the son of son sons of men that God might manifest them, that they might see, that they themselves are beasts." God is trying to get us to open our eyes to see, listen, without me, you are a If you're not in the image of God, which image is love, because God is love, then you are in the image of the beast who operates instinctly on wrath.

Remember when the disciples were talking to Jesus and in Luke chapter 9 verse 53 the Bible says this, they did not receive him because he his face was as though he was to go to Jerusalem. talking about this village in which Jesus uh people rejected Jesus. And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, "Lord, will thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them even as Elias did?" But he turned and rebuked them and said, "You know not what manner of spirit you are of?"

Wow. You are of. You are operating like beasts right now. The son of man has not come to destroy men's life but to save them. Remember when Peter said to Jesus, you know, far be from you to go die. Look at what Jesus did. Matthew 16:22. Matthew 16:23. But he turned and said unto Peter, "Get thee behind me, Peter." No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offense to God. You see, Jesus understood that he was not wrestling against flesh and blood. He understood that Peter wasn't the enemy.

He understood that these people in the village weren't the enemy. He understood that. But his disciples struggled with that. It took them some time to begin to understand. Wait a minute. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but spiritual wickedness in high places. In fact, Ellen White says this in Christ's triumph in page 270, she says this. Pilate was convinced that no evidence of the guilt of Christ could be sustain sub substantiated. Notwithstanding the priests and rulers had declared that he had spoken blasphemy.

But the Jews were under the inspiration of Satan as was Cain and other murderers who have determined to destroy life rather than save it. Quote, "And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirth up the people, teaching throughout all jewelry from Galilee, beginning from Galilee to this place. Fierceness, wrath." They were of the same spirit of Cain. Please, are y'all understanding what I'm saying this? I'm building up to something, y'all. I'm coming down to our time. So, we've seen what it was at the beginning.

We've seen what it was in the days of Jesus. And even Jesus prophesied of the future when he said this these words. Matthew 24:12. And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. In other words, beloved, Jesus said that as time proceeds, people would get colder and colder. The love of many would wax cold. Almost as if people would begin to rejoice over the deaths of their enemies. rejoice over the death of someone they don't like. That they would become that cold that they would actually begin to rejoice.

You see, understand, beloved, that if Satan can dehumanize you with hate, then you don't have an issue dehumanizing other people. Dehumanize people dehumanize people. And you'll see this plot. That's why I call it the devil's dehumanization plot because he's been running it all through history in Daniel chapter 7. In Daniel chapter 7 21, Daniel speaks of this little horn that made war with the saints. Daniel 7:21, I beheld and the same horn made war with the saints and prevailed against them. And what you need to understand about this little horn, beloved, is that this little horn is on the head of an animal.

It's part of an animal which signifies that its persecution of the people of God was because it is of the seed of the serpent. We don't have to guess this because the time period this little horn uh uh uh persecutes is known as the 1,260 years or the time times and a half. But when we go to Revelation 12, notice how Revelation 12:14 puts it. And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness where she has a place where she's nourished for a time, times, and a half from the face of the serpent.

Do y'all see this? In Genesis, it was the woman and the serpent. In Revelation, it's the woman and the serpent. In Genesis, it was the seed of hum of of a human seed and a beastly seed. We find the same thing in Revelation chapter 12. This persecuting power is described as a dragon, a beast, while the God's people is described by a woman. H listen to this y'all. Listen to this. Speaking of this beast in Revelation 17:5, she's now described, the beast is now described as a woman. And the Bible says in verse 5, "And upon her forehead was a name written, mystery Babylon the great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth.

And I saw the woman, listen to me now y'all, I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs." Beloved, that is the wine of Babylon, the blood of the saints that she is drinking. That is the wine of Babylon. What do you mean, pastor? Listen. The text says that it is the wine of the wrath. Revelation 18:3, for all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. This wine is wrath wine. Meaning those who partake of this are intoxicated with wrath.

And it is that wrath that leads them to become drunk with the blood of the saints. This is what was happening during the dark ages. That's why the Bible describes this woman as drunk with the blood of the saints. It is the same thing. The wine, the wine of the wrath is symbolic, listen to me, is symbolic of their hatred with which leads them like Cain to kill others. The wine of the wrath, you guys, is the fact that they're drinking the blood of the saints. And now remember this. You don't have to actually drink the blood of the saints, the blood of others to drink the blood of others.

Because Jesus said, "If you hate your brother, you are already guilty of the wine of the wrath of Babylon. You are already guilty of the blood." Now, I want you to hear this out because remember during the dark ages, this church, this system was was was getting drunk on this wine, this wine of wrath. And what I need to let help you to understand, beloved, is that wrath is intoxicating and it intoxicates others. So while the church in the dark ages were dehumanizing people because they themselves were dehumanized, full of wrath, full of hate, persecuting in the name of Jesus, they could look at another individual and say, "Yes, you deserve to die."

and you deserve to die because and if you can imagine the the media of that day, the media of that day must have surely given every reason why it was good for that person to die. Come on y'all. Maybe you don't want to say amen, but but it's okay. I'll say it for you. Amen. They must have given every reason why. Hey, listen. It's okay not to mourn this death. It's okay not to really be empathetic about this death because here is why. But what I need you to understand that that kind of wrath that had been being poured out in Europe over centuries began to produce another effect.

It is what we call the French Revolution. And I want to read something to you from the book Dark Darkness Before Dawn. It's also in the great controversy. But listen to what she says here. We're going to put it up on the screen. The teachings of religious leaders have opened the door to infidelity, to spiritualism, and to contempt for God's law. And upon these leaders rests a fearful responsibility for the iniquity that exists in the Christian world. Now, she's talking about post French Revolution, but the same principle applies pre-French revolution.

In other words, listen to me now. What we're being told here is that this system Babylon churches that reject the law of God in their rejecting the law of God, they are embibing in the wine of Babylon. And that wine, the law, if the law is summarized in love and they are rejecting the law of God, then they're rejecting the definition of love. And they are beginning to act while speaking about love. they can begin to do things that are the very opposite of love like burning people at the stake in the name of Jesus in the name of God.

That's what happened during the dark ages. And that kind of mentality, that kind of hypocrisy led to unbelievers in the French Revolution going, "Hey, we reject God and we reject the Bible." And the wrath that had been being poured upon upon them that they were forced to drink now gets them drunk on wrath. of the condition of the world today is primarily because the churches have been teaching that God's law is done away with. And if God's law is done away with, then guess what what you're saying is it's okay to kill.

It's okay to lie. It's okay to commit adultery. It's okay. If it's okay to break the Sabbath, then it must be okay to do all these other things. That's what the churches have been teaching to the world. It's okay. And now the world begins to get drunk off of this false doctrine, this false wine, and it produces wrath in them, which in turn angers Christians even more. How can you live like this? How can you do these things? Don't you see? Listen to this. The same the same master spirit that urged in the massacre of St.

Bartholomew led also in the scenes of the French Revolution. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Listen to what she goes on to say. The work which the papacy had begun, atheism completed. The one withheld from the people the truths of the Bible. The other taught them to reject both the Bible and its author. the seed sown by priests and pates was yielding its evil fruit. And she's speaking specifically about the French Revolution. If you want to know why America is in a condition that it is now, it is because the churches of America have been teaching for decades that the law of God is done away with.

That the law of God does not stand. That you are no longer under the law. You are under grace. that you don't need to obey the commandments because Jesus died on the cross and therefore uh the Sabbath is done away with as well as every other commandment. You just kind of gauge for yourself what is right or what is wrong. And when that message is coming from the only place in which sanity should be coming from, truth should be coming from, then what do you expect is going to happen to a nation? It's not the people's fault that they're like, "Oh, the law of God doesn't stand anymore."

It's the churches who've been teaching that forever in this country forever. And so what happens, beloved, is that this wine is is it's almost like a it's a it's a wine that that it produces more drunkards. It produces more drunkards. This man, and I'm coming to this man, this young man that killed Charlie Kirk was drunk on the wine of Babylon. He was drunk on wrath. We don't know all the reasons for his wrath, for his anger, but he was wrathful enough to become dehumanized and then dehumanize Charlie Kirk and then kill him.

You can't kill unless you dehumanize first. And beloved, here's what we need to understand as God's people. Because a lot of us get caught up, get caught up in this cycle of wrath, not realizing where it's all ending, where it's all headed. Listen to me, y'all. The Bible says in Proverbs 23:20, "They that tarry long at the wine, they that go to seek mixed wine. Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his color in the cup, when it moveth itself a right. At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder.

Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thine heart shall utter perverse things." May I suggest to you, beloved, that all who drink the wine of Babylon will eventually be brought into the system of Babylon itself. That's what the Bible tells us. The whole nation, the whole world is going to finally unite under the umbrella of Babylon. And the way the devil gets them to unite is through wrath. When you all have the same spirit of the beast, you will eventually worship the image of the beast. If you are reflecting the image of the beast now when the image of the beast is actually implemented you will be connect you will be drawn to it.

You will be attached to it. You will be attracted to it. This is why the Bible says in Proverbs chapter 20 wine is a is a marker. Strong drink is raging. Beloved, this is why strong drink is raging. When you begin to rage, when you begin to adopt the anger, adopt the wrath of the world, it is going to lead even of the professed church. It is going to lead to something that is not good in the end. So, Revelation 12:17 says this, "And the dragon was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ."

The devil's end game is to turn the entire world anger toward the church. And so many of us in the church are busy hyping up the anger of the world, hyping up the anger of those we agree with. And beloved, don't get me wrong. There are things in the world to be angry about. But there's a difference between righteous indignation and false righteous indignation. And the problem is that many of us cannot make it out. Because when godly anger will never lead you to see people as the beast, godly anger will never lead you to see flesh and blood as the enemy.

It will always lead you to understand that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. I know those people are doing this, but they think what they're doing is right. They think what they're doing is good. And I get it, but they're not. And they're deceived. And what can we do to help those people? It's not, oh, those people are wicked and let's make let's let's expose these wicked people. No, we should expose wickedness, but realize, beloved, that we are not wrestling against people. We're not wrestling against flesh and blood.

No matter how much the devil comes into Peter and tries to get Jesus to say, "Peter, you're wicked." Jesus knew Satan, get thee behind me. The devil's goal is to get the entire world drunk on the wine of Babylon. And watch this. When the Bible says that the wine of Babylon is given by this woman, remember a woman represents a church. So now now what the text is telling us is that at the end of time the devil will use a counterfeit righteous indignation because it's coming from the woman. She's angry over how the world is not following God.

She's angry over all the unrighteousness in the world and all the wicked. Meanwhile, meanwhile, it's the very same system that is teaching that the law of God is done away with, that you don't need to keep the commandments. It's that very same system that is attempting to put in place a Christian nationalistic a aocracy to solve the problem that lies at her feet. And so now Jesus says in John 16:2, "They shall put you out of the synagogues. Yay, the time is coming where he that kills you will think he is doing God's service.

The time is coming where he who is angry with you will think they're being angry with you in the name of Jesus. Do you know how many how many of us in the church are angry with other people in the church and we think that it is a holy anger? We think it is holy righteousness. I unfriend you. I unfriend you. Do you know? Do you know how many of us are being trained to see flesh and blood as the enemy as we continue to see uh uh um uh videos put up of people and what this person in the church does and what this and it's all designed.

Beloved, listen to me. Social media today is crazy because it's all designed to channel hate toward an individual. The devil knows that hate is a powerful motivator. So if he can dehumanize you, then he can lead you to dehumanize others. You see, I was listening to the news uh um earlier and they were saying that this the killer of Charlie Kirk said that Charlie Kirk was full of hate and spreading hate. Now, I want you to get catch catch this philosophy. This 22-year-old man said Charlie Kirk was full of hate and spreading hate.

And I'm against that. So, what I'm going to do is do something hateful. How does that work? Love has to be moved out of the way in order for the dehumanized in order for people to become dehumanized and then they can de dehumanize other people. Wrath takes a place of love. The more the less love you have in your heart for someone, the more wrath is automatically placed there. And so what I want you to understand, beloved, is that this wine has this effect where it intoxicates thousands of people at a time.

There are people who who were dancing when they heard Charlie Kirk died. I want you to think about that for a moment. People were dancing and celebrating saying, "Well, he said not to have empathy, so I'm not going to have empathy." But I need you to understand, beloved, that that whether that statement is right or wrong, don't have empathy or or or you know, empathy is a weakness, whatever, the fact that we're at a place in our society now where people are dancing and celebrating a death should scare everybody.

But it doesn't stop there because you have a whole another group of people who are saying it is time for war. Professed Christian people saying it is time for war. It is time for revenge, for vengeance. And I'm I'm what I'm trying to show you, beloved, is the plot of the enemy to to get a spirit of to get the spirit of wrath. wrath. The spirit of the beast so ingrained in the human heart, whether it is openly unrighteous or disguised under righteousness, you got to understand how this thing spreads.

See, see, a after this assassination attempt, a I'm sorry, after this assassination, this ungodly assassination, H.B.CU schools just got sh tons of them. Virginia State University, my old school, Oaka University, the school I went to after Adventist school, shut down because of death threats, most likely coming from people who claim to be Christians, American Christians, American patriots, people who are like, "Hey, God, country, what most likely coming from that se because they're angry about."

And you see what happens? The anger, it just keeps it just keeps spiraling and spiraling and spiraling. And the more it spirals is, the more it draws people into its cup. The devil, his goal, his plot is to and make you think you have the right to be dehumanized. This this m the People are like, "How can you be dancing at Charlie Kirk?" And now watch this. There were some Democratic senators, husband and wife, who were assassinated a few months back. And just as now, people are saying, "Where's the outcry for Charlie Kirk?"

Many of those same people who are saying, "Where's the outcry?" Not a word about that assassination. And now if you turn on the news, I need y'all to see what's going on here. But I need you to put down the cup please and see what's going on. Because now what's going on is oh this group of people, this political group of people, they are assassins. They are murderers. No, no, no. This group of murderers. What is time for war? This country may very well be headed for a civil war. And if you know anything about prophecy, if you've read the writings of the spirit of prophecy, you will see that she says a civil war will return to America.

The devil is seeking to dehumanize and to have all those who he dehumanize think they have the right to be dehumanized. Beloved, our world is becoming a scary place. This Ukrainian woman that was stabbed on the the the train in Charlotte, I think it's Charlottesville, Let me tell you and let me let me let me like I don't understand how an entire car car full of people saw this and let that woman just die there. Let that woman let that man get away. And I know he got caught in, you know, eventually.

But when we get to the place where we become so desensitized to, am I my brother's keeper? We have that mentality, that attitude. I need you to understand that what the devil is doing, beloved, he is he is dehumanizing the planet. And many Adventists are getting caught up in this dehumanization process. I'm coming to that. Please listen to me, y'all. Many of us are getting caught up. You could just look at the at Facebook comments and just see the dehumanization process within our church, within our members growing stronger and stronger and stronger.

We rejoice when we hear that those who don't agree with us, something has happened to them or we just say, "Hey, my silence is my rejoicing." That's how we do it. The Bible says in Proverbs 24:17, "Rejoice not when thine enemy fallth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumble, lest the Lord see it, and it displeased many, he turn away his wrath from him." Beloved, we should never be rejoicing. We should never be rejoicing. That is the spirit of the enemy. When George Floyd had a knee put on his neck and people were like, "Oh, he deserved it.

Oh, he was a criminal." Let let me tell you, the dehumanization process will always seek to justify why it's okay to dehumanize an individual. And we're watching it unfold before our very eyes. We're watching this process unfold before our very eyes where we can see a death and be like, "He probably deserved it." Or we can see a death and be like, "No need to intervene. No need to stop." Or we can see a death and rejoice. Listen y'all, I want to take these three because they're an example of what's happening in the world around us.

Charlie Kirk's death, people dancing. this Ukrainian woman's death, people standing by and not doing anything at least for a time. George Floyd, uh, he deserved it. I need you to understand how the devil is is is fulfilling this plot. And now you might say, well, well, how is this happening? Uh, uh, even in the church or how is this happening on such a large scale? Let me tell you how it's happening, you guys. The way that it's happening is this. If the devil can get you to become suspicious of flesh and blood, he has already got you sealed up.

So now what's happening is that we're getting to a place where where we're looking at different organizations and now we're looking at the people in those organizations saying, "Yeah, those people are beasts. They are animals." Let me give you the exhibit, y'all. The United Nations. Yeah, it's good for us. It's all right for us to be angry and to say those people in the United Nations, they know what they're doing and there's a plot and there's this and there's that or the World Economic Forum or the CDC or the Republicans or the Democrats or the deep state.

We can see these things and go, "Yo, the the people there are wicked." And the moment that the devil can get us to to to embrace the concept of flesh and blood as our enemy, it's the people in the Democratic party. It's the people in the Republican party. It's the people in the CDC that trying to kill us with this vaccine. It's the people at the United Nations. It's the people in the LGBT community. It's the people on the left. It's the people on the right. It's the people in BLM. It's the pe once we get to thinking this way.

And you see, here's what we don't understand, you guys. When when when God talks about Babylon, you understand he's not talking about the people. He's talking about the system. And this is why in Revelation 18:4, the Bible says, "I heard another voice from heaven saying, "Come out of her, Babylon, my people, that you be not partakers of her sin and that you receive not of her plagues." God knows how to separate system from people. So, while beloved, we believe that the papal system is a is a is an anti-Christian system, we don't go around saying that the people in the system are crooked and liars and wicked and animals and beasts and and whatever happens to them, they deserve it.

We don't do that. Even though we believe that that the the the Christian nationalist movement is a fulfillment of Bible prophecy, Revelation 13:11, we don't say the people in it are wicked. At least we shouldn't say the people in it are wicked. They don't know what they're doing. Listen y'all. If Jesus himself, if Jesus knew that Satan was moving in those Roman soldiers and moving in in in in the Pharisees and Jesus himself prayed to the father, saying they don't know what they're doing. Now, if anyone ever had the right to say, "Yep, they are conspiring to do something that they know is Jesus is the one that could have been like, "Yep, it's the people."

It's not even Satan, it's the people. But Jesus himself said they know not what they do. How should we be treating people in the LGBT community? How should we be treating people in a party that you may not agree with? who have embraced racism? How should we be treating people who have embraced philosophies we don't agree with? How should we be treating people who have embraced doctrines that we don't agree with? How should we be treating people? Jesus says, "Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends."

who are his friends. No, Jesus didn't point to someone who agrees with you. Jesus didn't point to those who have your philosophy. Jesus didn't point to those who who act like you and look like you and and and are your skin color. Jesus pointed to the ones that the Jews thought were their enemies the most. That's your brother. And so many of us, beloved, in the church, we have this this smug righteous indignation that we can just tell people they're wicked and tell people that they support this or that and thus they are this and that and and and you're this and and and listen y'all, it's so infiltrating the church that we now see that same spirit even towards our own leadership, even towards the general conference.

We are now trained. Oh, you're a liberal. You're a conservative. I hate you. Oh, you're in the leadership. And we have this spirit of disdain, this spirit of wrath, and we buy into these these these these uh uh these suspicions. There is no place that made it more clearer than the COVID issue. Instead of us adopting a spirit of hey, if you want to be vaccinated, that's fine. And if you don't want to be vaccinated, that's fine. No, no, no, no. It had to be you are the enemy if you got vaccinated or you are the enemy if you don't get vaccinated.

It had it couldn't be we wrestle wrestle not against flesh and blood. No, no, no. It had to be you bowed your knee to Babylon. You're preparing to receive the mark of the beast. It couldn't just be, "Hey, you were convicted to get it. You were convicted not to get it. Let every man be convicted in his own mind." It couldn't be that. Nope. Nope. Nope. There was a conspiracy. No, no, no. There was going to be this was going to be the beginning of it. Had to be something. And beloved, when we have that disposition that that we have to find an enemy for a cause, we have to it's got to be flesh and blood somewhere.

And therefore I unfriend you. I unfriend you. I unfriend you. Do you know how much unfriending happened over CO? Do you know how many people have unfriended one another, not realizing that the devil is planting the spirit, the very spirit of wrath, and it's only going deeper and deeper and deeper? Watch this y'all. Listen to this quote from the Great Controversy, page 608. Ellen White says this. As the storm approaches, a large class who have professed faith in the third angel's message, but have not been sanctified through obedience to the truth abandoned their position and join the ranks of the opposition.

Now, pause for a second. Who are the ranks of the opposition? We know that the ranks of the opposition represents the papal and apostate Protestant systems. What we're being told here in this statement is that at the end of time they're going to be Adventists who join the papacy and apostate Protestantism. They have become so enamored with the wrath of these systems. What are you angry at? What are you angry? Oh, we're angry at this. Okay, we're an And it's a righteous indignation. Here's what she goes on to say.

by uniting with the world and partaking of its spirit of its spirit. She calls these systems the world even though it's the church. She calls it the spirit of the world because it is a beastly spirit. She says by partaking of its spirit, they have come to view matters in nearly the same light. In other words, they're on the same page with everything that's that apostate Protestantism and and and the papacy are they believe their philosophies. They're now on the same page. By uniting with the world and partaking of its spirit, they have come to view matters in nearly the same light.

And when the test is brought, they are prepared to choose the easy and popular side. You know what's going to be the popular side at this time? It's not going to be atheism. It's going to be the image of the beast. That's where everybody's going to be flocking to. Men of talent and pleasing address. Men who were well-known. Men who could throw down men who who had podcasts and and all. Men who men of talent and pleasing address who once rejoice in the truth employ their powers to deceive and mislead souls.

They become the most bitterest and bitter enemies of their former brethren when Sabbath keepers are brought before the courts to answer for their faith. These apostates are the most efficient agents of Satan. You might be like, "Nah, that that could never be. That could never be." But listen beloved, if you're partaking of the wrath of Babylon now, a pseudo wrath against unrighteousness, a wrath that points people that points to people as the enemy. They are wicked. They are against us. They have declared war.

This is war. They are the enemy. beloved, without understanding Jesus's distinction that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. I listen y'all. The papacy, the issue with the papacy is its teaching. The people in it are simply deceived. They're not wicked. They're not plotting. They're not like, "Oh man, how can we how can we help the devil get his plan across?" Beloved, no. No. That's a very childish approach to prophecy. And so what we need to understand, beloved, is that we must have the spirit of Jesus who said they know not what they do.

Jesus was God. If they knew what they were doing, he would not have said that. And yet he said they know not what they do. Beloved, we have to come to that same conclusion. Listen, this system is wicked. It may be corrupt. It may be this, that, but they don't know what they're doing. They think they're doing the right thing. And I disagree with them. Biblically, they're not doing the right thing, but they don't know that. I'm giving them the benefit of the doubt. Why? Because I am my brother's keeper.

That's my brother. People aren't literally trying to kill you with drugs. People aren't literally out to Listen, y'all. People are even when they are wrong in their position, they're doing what they think is the best way to go forward. And if we don't have that spirit, we're going to continue to hate one another. And listen, there's no turning back. This is a turning point. It is only going to get worse. Let me let me say it now. It is only going to get worse. The question is, am I going to partake of that wine?

Listen to me again, you guys. There are things to be genuinely angry about. Righteous indignation. I get that. I get that. Unrighteousness. Yes. Yes. When people are getting murdered. Yes. Yeah. Racism. Yes. Yes. You can go down the list of things that that that deserve righteous indignation. Senseless murders. But beloved, how we respond. When we respond with it's vengeance time, when we respond with I hate you, when we respond with I hate them, you are already caught in the enemy's trap. We're getting ready to close.

I want you to listen to this. I want you to listen to this. When Saul dies, David doesn't rejoice. Listen what David did. The Bible says, "Then David took hold of his clothes and rent them, and likewise all the men that were with him, and they mourned and wept and fasted until even for Saul and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of the Lord, and for the house of Israel, because they were fallen by the sword." I want you to see how David treated Saul. When Jesus was on the cross, he prayed, "Father, forgive them."

Luke 23:34, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do." And I want you to listen to what Ellen White says about this. Listen to what Ellen White says about this. Then I've got one more verse and we're going to close up. She says this. While the soldiers were doing their fearful work, Jesus prayed for his enemies. Father, forgive them for they know not what they do. His mind passed from his own suffering to the sin of his persecutors and the terrible retribution that would be theirs. No curses were called down upon the soldiers who were handling him so roughly.

No vengeance was invoked upon the priests and rulers who were gloating over the accomplishment of their purpose. Christ pied them in their ignorance and guilt. He breathed only a plea for their forgiveness, for they know not what they do. And now listen what she says. Had they known that they were putting to torture one who had come to save the sinful race from eternal ruin, they would have been seized with remorse and horror. But their ignorance did not remove their guilt. For it was their privilege to know and accept Jesus as their savior.

Some of them would yet see their sin and repent and be converted. Some by their impenitence would make it impossible for the prayer of Christ to be answered for them. Yet just the same, God's purpose was reaching its fulfillment. Jesus was earning the right to become the advocate of men in the father's presence. And then this last paragraph, that prayer of Christ for his enemies embraced the whole world. It took in every sinner that has lived or should live from the beginning of the world to the end of time.

Upon all rest the guilt of crucifying the son of God. To all forgiveness is freely offered. Whosoever will may have the peace with may have peace with God and inherit eternal life. Beloved, I want to appeal to you that you drop the spirit of wrath, that you drop the spirit of anger, even the disguise of righteous indignation against people. We need to stop demonizing people. God has not called us to demonize people because if the people are the demons, then our targets are going to be people. And we have not been called to target people.

We've been called to target systems. We've been called to say Babylon is fallen is fallen. And when we're focused on the system, beloved, we can we can despise the system and yet love the people. But the people aren't lovely. That doesn't matter. But the people are are acting like beasts. That doesn't matter. God's call is to is to walk them from the image of the beast back to the image of God. It is to show them what Christ does in the heart to transform the character. And beloved, as long as we see each other as the enemy, as long as we are in the mindset of I unfriend you, that I unfriend you will ultimately lead to the point in time where they It will lead to the point in time where whosoever does not worship the image of the beast should be killed and killed in the name of righteousness.

That's where this is headed. Jo Lord, help me to put down the wrath and pick up your love. Help me to live by that principle that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. It is not the people, it is the systems. It is the systems that get into the minds of the people and tell the people think this way, act this way, walk this way. And we our target is not the people. It is the system. Lord, teach us to understand that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Because you know what? The world is not going to get this lesson.

And the wrath of the world will eventually be turned upon you and upon me. You will be called a criminal. You will be called a crook. It will be said of you that your your death is worthy. Your death has a noble cause. You should die because you are not following along. social media will say of you, "Yeah, he deserved to die. She deserved to die. And this is why." And so, beloved, if you feed into that spirit now, you're simply feeding the very spirit that will either swallow you up and make you one of them, make you embibe in that same spirit, or the very spirit that will eventually turn on you.

Why would you feed that spirit? My appeal today, I want to read it to you. John 15:12-14. This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what whatsoever I command you. If you were sitting next to Charlie Kirk and you saw that gun and you knew that you had the power to save this man or to have him killed. If you were on that train and you saw that man take out that knife to go attack that defenseless woman.

If you were there when George Floyd had that knee on his neck, I want you to ask yourself, what would I have done? If I could go back and change the hands of time, what would I have done? Greater love has no man this than a man laid down his life for his friends. Jesus said in Matthew 10:22, "You shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake, but he that endureth unto the end, the same shall be saved." Endure in what? Endure in love. The love of many is waxing cold. And it's waxing cold even in the church.

Beloved, it is my prayer. It is my prayer that we will take our weapons off of one another. That we will learn to stop targeting people inside the church and outside the church. That we will deal with the philosophies, with the systems, deal with those. But beloved, leave the people alone. Pray for the people. Be willing to die for the people. That is what God has called us to do. If it's your desire to live by that principle that we wrestle not against flesh and blood but against spiritual wickedness in high places where you will stop seeing the people as the enemy.

Stop seeing the pastors, the people, the leaders, the GC this, the GC that, the CDC, the the Democrats, the Republicans, the stop seeing the people as the problem and focus on what God has called us to do. He's called us to call out Babylon and call a people out of Babylon. If that is your desire to say, "Lord, I'm going to love every soul and distinguish between the philosophy and the person." Help me, Lord, that I do not become dehumanized. Put that one in the chat. Lord, help me that I never become dehumanized and that I will not dehumanize other people whether I agree with them or not.

If that's your desire, put that one in the chat and let us pray that God will make this a reality in our lives because beloved, the love of many is waxing cold. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your love for us. Thank you that you loved us even while we were yet your enemies. Lord, with everything going on in this world around us, people are calling for vengeance. People are calling for civil war. And Lord, if we as a church don't get it together before these things really start to go down, we're going to get swept up in the wrath.

And many of us are already drinking of the wine of this wrath. Please, Lord, show us, show us how to live as you lived. Show us how to be in your image and not the And Lord, please seal the spirit of love in our hearts that we may know that our enemy is not flesh and blood, but spiritual wickedness in high places. Thank you, Lord. And train us to see beyond flesh and blood is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. I want to thank you all for tuning in and we're going to go ahead and put the link in the chat for the afterglow.

Uh so please uh we encourage you to to to jump on. We invite you to join us and we're going to talk about Sabbath school. We'll talk about the the uh the uh message today and you'll get to share your thoughts and we'll get to fellowship together. And so again, may God bless you and keep you and may God keep your eyes focused on Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. God bless you. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch.

We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.