Hello friends. Welcome back to True Health Tuesdays. I am still new at this, so I'm kind of awkward. You have to forgive me if I'm not 100% as professional as uh Pastor Ivor and Atante, but I'm I'm learning. I'm learning. I'm I'm I'm getting there. Uh but uh welcome back to our health program. And uh today, as you might already know, we're doing part two of our program about cancer. So, if you haven't watched the first part, I hope you can watch the first one. You don't have to do it now. You can do it later.

You know, it's in our on our website um for Living Mana Church. I think Power of the Lamb, I think True Health Tuesdays has its own website now. So, go ahead and watch it. I hope sometime you can you know get caught up with that because in the first part as you might remember we talked about the causes of cancer. And so now today we're going to talk about well what we can eat, what we can do to fight cancer. Of course there's other things than just food but you know one of my specialties I guess my biggest specialty is nutrition and I love to talk about food.

So today I'm going to talk about what foods specifically uh fight cancer. And so first of all, just like last time, I'm going to tell you that this uh program is not meant to be a treatment for anybody. It's not meant to diagnose anybody. This is 100% educational. So if you have cancer or if you know anybody who has cancer, make sure you talk to a doctor. you're under, you know, uh the uh care of a medical um professional. Um but this could be very educational for you. So that's what I want to let you know first.

And second, as always, I will always tell you this that everything I hope everything that I speak in this program will be always in harmony with this is a spiritual disclaimer especially for seventh day. Those of you who are Seventh Day Adventist, everything that I say hopefully will be 100% harmony with the Bible and the spirit of prophecy. So everything the rule that I follow, as you probably already know, if you've heard me before, is Isaiah 8:20 and hopefully most of you know this verse by now.

If not, uh you will learn it. Is to the law and the testimony. if it's not according to this. So, anything that you hear whether it's about health or about spiritual truths, uh if you hear something that is not according to the Bible and the testimony, meaning the spirit of prophecy, if it's not according to this, if there's something that is uh weird, that it doesn't sound right, there's probably no light in it. And uh as I've told you before, oh by the way uh I think I remember you telling you this last time.

We are living in very difficult times, very special times. And uh the reason is because we are under war. And this verse tells us about this. The dragon was enraged uh with the woman. The woman is the church. and went to make war um to the uh went to make war with the rest of her the rest of the church meaning us those who keep the commandments and have the testimony of Jesus and as we know the test what's the testimony of Jesus again the Bible tells us oops I went too fast the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy the Bible the Bible gives us the answers uh the Bible interprets itself and as I've told you before the the books that I always recommend there's always more books obviously there's a lot of writings but if you haven't read these two books I recommend you go and read uh councils on food and uh wait what's the name again because I can't see it that screen is too small councils on diet and food and ministry of healing highly recommended those are very good to start with Okay.

Uh also by the way what I think is very very important is the scientific evidence is of good good quality. And so as you see in this pyramid the bottom the bottom the bottom of this pyramid is opinion. So whenever you hear people online Facebook YouTube whatever social media in general internet and Dr. such and such says and that's the only proof they have is very low quality evidence. Higher evidence is scientific evidence that actually is peer-reviewed. In other words, that other people have looked into it.

Just like the Bible says the testimony of two or more. So if just one expert says it, it's not enough. Biblically speaking, it's only one person. The Bible says testimony of two or more. peer review. That's exactly what it is. So, it's biblical if you think about it in those terms. All right? So, when you if you look at the top of this pyramid over here, peer-reviewed metaanalysis, that kind of thing is many people looking at the same evidence and saying, "Yes, yes, this is good. This is actually good evidence."

That's what it means. All right? And right here, look at this quote from testim uh from the uh spirit of prophecy. Look at what it says. The knowledge of science of all kinds is power. We are not anti-science. And a practical knowledge of science of human life is necessary in order to glorify God in our bodies. So, sorry if I'm repeating this for those of you who have seen this before, but there might be people who have not seen it. That's why I think it's worth repeating. Okay. Okay. So, I'm going to skip this one.

We are going to talk about cancer. Last week, we talked about the causes of cancer. I gave a little bit of my testimony of how horrible cancer sometimes could be, especially if it touches someone in your family. It's touched my family many times. When it was my husband, it was a lot worse than it was when it was, you know, someone a little bit more removed. Uh, but cancer is a little bit more I think scarier than other u diseases. And uh just as a sort of a review, we talked about the stages of cancer, the initiation, the promotion.

By the way, I forgot to mention progression. I don't think I defined it last time. Progression is when that tumor So initiation, let me start over. Initiation is when there's damage. Do you remember when I we talked about this last time? there's um sort of a damage to the DNA, the genetic material inside of cells, whether it's from chemical damage, radiation, even viruses like COVID can cause damage to the DNA of cells and uh but that's just initiation when that cell starts to replicate. So that cells becomes one cell becomes two, two become four, four become eight, eight 16 and so on.

That's uh the second stage and that's promotion. And last week we talked a lot about promotion and what can lead to promotion but also what can maybe even stop promotion. So if you haven't seen that, go back and watch that video. But progression, I didn't really define it. Progression is when that tumor or cells from that tumor get into the um blood flow or even lymph flow um and get to other parts of the body and instead of being just um in one organ have gone to other organs. And you also might know this as by another term called metastasis.

When the cancer has metastasized, it has gone into that third stage called progression. And that is much harder of course to deal with as you can imagine. So this is what we talked about last week. Uh we talked about how that again these toxins in the environment sometimes we cannot avoid them. We don't know what in the environment could have played a part in one particular case of cancer. We don't know. That's the scary part about really about cancer. Like what is it that caused my particular case of cancer?

I can't I it's really hard to know honestly unless it's something like lung cancer and cigarette smoking. Honestly, that maybe could be more a direct cause and it's really easier maybe to tell. But other than that, it's much harder. We are exposed to so many things throughout our lives. We talked about some of the foods as you might remember. Some of it was somewhat surprising to maybe some of you that watched the uh video last time because we talked about for instance protein uh and how higher uh amounts of protein particular oh well animal protein because we actually I mentioned how they did the same exact uh the ex same exact exper experiments or studies with the same animals And the plant proteins from soy from wheat did not cause the uh effects that animal protein in particular in the case of Dr.

T. Colin Campbell it was casein the protein from milk that caused the proliferation of cancer cells. And so you can see this uh in this in this um graphic. So that's what they found. One of the things they found is that animal protein causes the proliferation of cancer cells. Uh there's other things. Oh, by the way, so Dr. T. Colin Campbell says it's almost like turning cancer on and off. You can read that in the book, The China Study. Um so, but then he also found in the studies that that actually affected the promotion, remember?

Because every single animal in those studies was given in a way cancer because they were exposed to a cancer initiator, if you will, whether it was alpha toxin, which is very toxic, very cancer-causing toxin, or they were animals that had the uh cancer-causing virus and uh they were all exposed to that. So, they were all initiated, if you will, but not all of them develop cancer. Therefore, this variable in this case was the animal protein was somehow affecting the second stage which is promotion.

Okay, remember we also talked about how animal well actually not animal protein this case is red meat or processed meats is actually considered a carcinogen by uh the WHO the World Health Organization or this particular uh agency in the World Health Organization. So it's considered a carcinogen. I mean it is what it is. All right, we talked about that there's this particular um chemical that is produced uh when the red meat in particular any meat actually when it's post when it's put on a grill when you put any meat on a grill apart from the proteins in the in the meat the grilling process produces many car carcinogenic substances And I gave you one example, benzo pyrene for instance.

And this study actually talks about those carcinogens. And it talks about benzopyrene. And I mentioned last week uh last time that the the equivalent of 600 cigarettes is present in two pounds of grilled meat. So that's pretty surprising. I think it was surprising for some of you guys. And we talked about acryomide. I don't know if you remember but we talked about that present in uh fried foods in particular because they achieve a very high temperature. So these are starchy foods that are put in high temperature and they form acryommites.

And I think the last thing we talked about is TMAO and these are formed in the gut. When we eat certain kinds of foods and these are the kinds of foods that when present in the mic uh in the presence of microbiota they form these metabolites uh that then we are exposed to and can cause cancer. So TMAO is another one and uh we talked about cholesterol. cholesterol. When we eat foods with cholesterol, maybe they don't cause our serum cholesterol, meaning the cholesterol in our blood, to go up. That's maybe those two are disconnected.

Blood cholesterol and dietary cholesterol, maybe they're disconnected. Okay, fine. But the dietary cholesterol still causes cancer because that's what they have found. I'm just giving you a review of last time. And to conclude last time's re uh last time's uh program, we came to this uh quote that I find fascinating. The results of these and other studies show that nutrition nutrition is more important in controlling the there's that word again promotion of cancer than the doses of cancer initiators.

So the conclusion that Dr. Campbell came to is that yes, we can be exposed to many chemicals, fertilizers and all these different uh pesticides, whatever chemicals and food. We can be exposed to those things even in the food we buy. We might not be able to afford everything organic, but that doesn't mean that we're going to just give up and eat junk from now on because we can't buy organic fruit. No. Because actually the fruit and the vegetables that are not organic, you can wash them first of all.

you can clean them and take out 90 to 95% of those fertilizers and those uh pesticides, but those fruits and vegetables inside also have these magnificent compounds that I'm going to talk to you about today that actually fight cancer and don't have those cancer-causing things such as protein, cholesterol, and these other things that might cause cancer. Therefore, the nutrition, what you eat, what you're exposed to in the diet might have even more effect in the promotion of cancer than that original whatever you were exposed to, toxin or ex, you know, ex uh excess UV rays from the sun or whatever you were exposed to, what you eat might be even more important.

And here's another quote that we read last uh time. Cancer promotion again that second part of that development of cancer. Cancer promotion he says is reversible. Remember when when we read this and I was like I'm glad I didn't say it because this is a very bold statement, very bold. I don't think any medical uh doctor will be bold enough to say it, right? Because this is kind of going against the grain if you will, against the conventional knowledge or conventional wisdom, conventional, you know, the conventional uh sayings right now because most people will say, "Yeah, cancer is incurable.

You're just going to use this treatment to keep it in check. Hopefully, won't come back." But here it says cancer promotion is reversible. But not just reversible, it depends. It depends on what on whether that initial cancer growth has the correct conditions to grow. So when you were exposed to whatever it is that's causing cancer, that's the key. When you were exposed to whatever that thing that causes cancer, were the conditions in your body good for that cancer to grow or were they not? We don't know.

But from now on, do you want to have those conditions in your body for cancer to grow or do you not? It's up to you. It's up to you. And you know what? Now I'm remembering that I took out some slides that I totally wanted to show you and I just remembered that I forgot to put them. I'm just gonna tell you about a study and you can look it up. In fact, I'll just, you know, just send me, you know, uh, oh, by the way, if you've written me these last two weeks, I apologize. I try to, uh, respond to many, many messages.

I did respond to, many I did not have time to because I have been doing the 10-day program at my work right now. And it was a little bit more difficult than usual because of the holiday. The clinic we usually partnered with was closed for the holiday. Uh they always close for holidays, but we usually partner with a church when the clinic is closed, 7th Avenue Church in Watsonville, California. And that church is tearing down the building, the the fellowship hall where we usually meet when the clinic is closed.

And so we couldn't meet there either. and we almost didn't have the class and so we were looking frenetically for a place to meet all of last week and it was just terrible. We almost had to class at class and I have noticed that when we cancel the class our results suffer we do not have the same outcomes. That educational component is very very important. People need to know people need to know in their brain why food is so important for these diseases. when they don't hear it, they don't have the same motivation.

So, I apologize if I haven't answered your uh your messages that you've sent me in my website. But if you do send me a message these next few days, I will be looking into those messages the next few days. Sorry. But what I want to say is that I could send you the uh references for the study where what what happened is this. They took um blood from women who had um who had breast cancer and they had these uh petri dishes. I don't know if you've seen if you've taken any like uh biochemistry class or whatever.

And so they put these cancer cells in petri dishes and they put the blood of these women on those cancer cells. And at first first before the intervention, well, nothing happened. The cancer cells were still there. And then what they did, the intervention was that they put these women on a plant uh plant-based diet for two weeks. And after the two weeks, they repeated the um the experiment where they put the blood on the cancer cells and they looked at them again with a microscope, obviously. And the second time they did this after the intervention, two weeks of a plant-based diet, that blood destroyed those cancer cells.

And they actually show in the study, and I wish I had put this slide. I didn't I wish I had taken it out. They actually show the difference before and after. You see the two pictures. one with the cancer cells before the intervention where the blood did did nothing. And the second picture with no cancer cells. So the blood of these women after two weeks of eating a plant-based diet was able to get rid of the cancer cells, which is amazing. Another thing is uh a study that Dr. Dean Ornish, you can look this up, Dr.

Dean Ornish is very famous for having been one of the first who did a study that found that uh coronary heart disease can actually start to be reversed. So before this in the 1990s every doctor thought that once you had coronary artery disease in other words the accumulation of plaque inside your arteries uh once that started to happen it was irreversible. But he in the early 1990s published a study where they found that yeah, if you put people on a plant-based diet, that plaque that starts to uh obstruct those arteries actually can start to go down, become thinner, and in other words, the obstruction starts to go away.

And so he became famous. But more recently, he did a study with uh patients with prostate cancer. And uh what they found is that early stage prostate cancer, the uh men who were put on a plant-based diet, they actually uh got better. Their numbers became better. Their uh cancer did not progress. So they put the group of men into two separate groups. Some had the intervention, some didn't. In the intervention group, the cancer did progress and some of them had to then be put on a cancer treatment.

Whereas the men who did have the the uh intervention, meaning the the uh plant-based diet, none of them uh had to be put on cancer treatment because none of their none none of them had actually a cancer that progressed. So, those are very good studies of the possible good outcomes of a plant-based diet on cancer. So, that's pretty awesome, I think. So, if you're interested, I can absolutely send you um those studies if you're interested in in the uh references. So, what we're going to talk about is well, what are these foods?

What foods are they that fight cancer? You probably already have an idea, but I'm about to talk to you about specific things in the foods. What's in the foods that fight cancer? Why should you eat them? Okay, so the first thing I want to talk to you about is antioxidants. You probably heard that word before, like antioxidants people hear all the time in the media, right? Or, I don't know, social media, right? like doctor's presentations videos, people talk about antioxidants and it's a word that's used all the time.

But but what is it though? I kind of want to tell you a little bit what it is so at least you know because it's a bit of a concept that a lot of people might not know really what it is and maybe this will help you. Maybe it'll give you an idea. I don't know if it will. if it will help. But antioxidant like it says in this um slide, antioxidants are naturally occurring molecules that are present in certain foods obviously that help to fight free radicals. Ah, there's another word like what are free radicals?

Well, it says right here, but what do antioxidants do? They donate an electron. Now, we're talking about chem chemistry, but just just stick with me a little bit, okay? Electrons. They donate electrons um so that they don't steal the electrons from healthy cells. So, here's a little bit of an illustration that I added for you. Here's a healthy cell. Here's a free radical. See, this is a bad guy. The bad guy steals an electron from a healthy cell. So, now it damages Free radicals. Here's free radicals.

Here's the definition. Free radicals are missing an electron. So what do they do? They steal it from healthy cells, thus causing damage. Okay? So here's the bad guy. Stealing an electron from a healthy cell. It damages these cells. That's why free radicals are bad. What do antioxidants do? This is how they help. They donate the electron to the free radical so they don't have to go out and steal it from the healthy cells. Okay, I hope that helps. So that at least you know what's happening. At least you know kind of the big picture.

Um there here's another slide that maybe helps too. So antioxidants are group of naturally occurring substances that protect cells from oxidative damage. I wanted to put this also uh in the in the PowerPoint presentation because oxidative damage is another big word that people hear and I don't know if everybody knows really what it is. Oxidative damage. Well, what is it? Well, it's o it's basically the damage caused by these free radicals. That's really what it is. So, here it is again. oxid uh antioxidants are touted uh to fight free radical damage by donating electrons to deactivate the free radical.

So that's what's happened here. He's talking about in particular about uh protecting the skin but not just protect it doesn't just protect uh or antioxidant don't just protect skin they do much more than just protect skin they actually can uh prevent cancer. So they prevent damage as I said to cells. So they're very very um they're very good for us. But I want to give you uh one I want to tell you one thing. They have done studies with taking supplements of antioxidants. When they discovered how good antioxidants are, they actually started doing studies by giving supplements to people.

And they found that supplements do the exact opposite as the foods with the antioxidants. They actually found that when they I think it was smokers, they gave vitamin A and instead of preventing cancer from developing in smokers, they actually cause more cancer. So, it's better to get them from food. trying to get them from food, not from taking pills. In other words, pills are not from God. Foods are from God. So, let's get our antioxidants from the source, the original source, which is the food that God made.

All right? So, what's the best source for antioxidants? You probably already know that fruits and vegetables. actually fruits and vegetables that are the most colorful. I always tell this, you probably already heard it a million times. Eat the rainbow. Why? Because the more more colorful the fruits and vegetables are, the more brilliant, the more, you know, the the the colors that are more uh darker, more colorful, you know, the just the more colorful the fruits and vegetables are, the better because that means they're there's more pigments in these fruits and vegetables.

And the pigments are the antioxidants. That's why we tell you to eat the rainbow. Now, you've probably already heard about cruciferous vegetables. Amongst all vegetables, cruciferous vegetables stand out probably the most. You've probably heard this. I hope you have because if you've heard it, that means you're paying attention. Cruciferous vegetables have in particular this one compound that you see on the screen called sulfurophane. Have you heard about sulfurophane? I hope you have. If you've heard about sulfurophane, you've probably heard about it has so many so many benefits.

I don't have time to go over all the benefits of sulfurophane. I'm going to talk only in uh relation to cancer. But sulfurophane in relation to cancer has been shown to prevent cancer and number two inhibit well they've done studies in particular with breast cancer for instance where they found that inhibits breast cancer stem cells which are the ones that then become u other types of cells that's stem cells are so the mechanisms what by which uh sulurophane might have these effects might be uh by inducing apoptosis.

I don't know if you've ever heard of this word. Did I mention it last time? I might have. Apoptosis is basically the way in which cells destroy themselves. They it's programmed cell death. Uh so it's it's it's a very good sort of system that cells have to get you know die but it's orderly death if you will. It's programmed ahead of time. Uh so the uh sulfurophane induces cancer cells to die. But also the other way in which sulfurophane might act is by suppressing I I'm pretty sure I mentioned this term last time angioenesis.

Do you remember that word last time? Angioenesis meaning means the production of blood vessels and blood vessels is the production of blood vessels is great unless it's in tumors because if you're feeding the tumor with blood vessels that means you're feeding the tumor with blood meaning it's growing more. You don't want androgenesis. Anything that prevents angioenesis in tumors is good because that means the tumor is not growing. So that's what sulurophane does. It prevents angioenesis in tumors.

That's actually a good thing. Isn't that wonderful? All right. So all cruciferous vegetables have it, but broccoli in particular is the highest. Did you know? Did you know by the way that well I won't tell you until I see that slide but all what are the cruciferous vegetables broccoli but all the cousins of broccoli uh cabbage red cabbage has more of not just red cabbage has more of also other antioxidants because of the u has more pigments right because it's red but all cabbage is good actually.

So, eat it. Uh, cauliflower of course is good. Do you know these little things right here? A lot of people don't like them. The Brussels sprouts, you see them? Uh, also, by the way, did you know that these two green vegetables are also cruciferous vegetables? Do you guys eat them? the green cruciferous vegetables, green leafy vegetables, the kale, the u color greens. Do you eat them? Put a one in the chat if you eat collar greens and kale. There's many varieties of kale, by the way. So, I hope you're eating your your green vegetables every day.

Why should you eat a green leafy vegetables every day? Why? Why? Because green vegetables, green leafy vegetables are the most nutrient-dense foods in the human diet. What's nutrient-dense? Meaning they have the most amount. Oh, there's a one. There's a one in the chat. Only one person. No, I can't believe only one person. Oh, there's another one. Great. Two people eat greens. Three. Three people eat greens every day. Ah, I feel better now. All right. Wonderful. As I was say, four. Okay. Awesome.

We have we have healthy people. Yay. As I was saying, green leafy vegetables, you guys, have the highest nutrient density of any other food in the human diet. Meaning they have the highest concentration of micro nutrients per weight. What are micronutrients? Vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals. So the all these other substances that oh there's another one all these substances that are fighting cancer and heart disease and autoimmune diseases and on and on and on and on. Okay, these disease fighting chemicals sounds kind of weird to say chemicals because when we say chemicals we think of bad things.

These are good substances. So, they're phytonutrients, phytochemicals. Okay, they're not bad. They're good. All right, so green leafy vegetables every day. If you're not eating your green leafy vegetables every day, you can start today or you can start tomorrow actually because it's kind of late today, but maybe tomorrow. You can eat them in a big salad or you can steam them briefly. You don't need to overcook them. You can make a green smoothie. So many ways. All right. What I was going to say before is that did you know that broccoli sprouts have 10 times more sulforophane than regular broccoli?

Did you know up to 100 even? Did you know? No. Yes. No. Well, they do. So, if you really want to get more sulforophane in your life, in your body, make some broccoli sprouts. Go to the health food store or order them online. These little seeds and sprout them. How do you sprout them? Soak them overnight. The next morning, you put the the soak them overnight in a jar like this glass jar. put a little metal screen or whatever other screen that you're like I don't know like a cheesecloth I guess would work uh so that can breathe also but it can also drain and so soak them overnight the next morning you let it drain out well uh wash them before like let the water drain out and uh and then let the wa I guess you would rinse them again and then let the water drain out but put the jar like this on an angle so it could be draining the whole time.

That's what I do. I always have a jar of uh broccoli sprouts going for my husband. Actually, I eat them sometimes. I mostly make them. I have one right now over there. I would go get it, but then you know you'd be bored while you wait for me. So, I won't bring it. But I have one right now going takes about And so, what do you do? Um, you rinse it three times a day. That's what I do. Rinse it three times a day. In about 5 days, you get these little sprouts that you see on the screen. Question, should we eat leafy greens raw or cooked?

I'd say however you're going to eat them. But if you eat them raw, you probably get more nutrition out of them. And if you're going to eat them cooked, I would say steam them briefly, maybe two or three minutes. I don't think you need to do more than that. So, you want to preserve the color as much as possible. You would still want them to be very bright green. If you cook them for too long, you're probably going to be destroying a lot of those um a lot of those nutrients. All right. Uh so, our producer, hope she's I hope she's reading the uh the uh comments.

I can't control the size of the screen. Our producer can do it. So, we're being asked if it could be put on full screen. So, oh yes, there it is. Thank you, producer. Um, so there it is. Broccoli sprouts. Awesome, you guys. So, maybe you can do the other way. Me small and the slight big. All right. Anyway, let's talk about berries. Oh, berries are just the bomb. Berries for diabetics. I recommend berries as the number one fruit. You know why? There are studies that have shown that not only do they not elevate blood sugars, they actually lower I would tell you all about if we have time because I just talk too much.

I won't tell you all about it. I'll just mention it that berries lower blood sugar. They do not elevate they're fruit. They have they're sweet but they do not elevate blood sugars. They lower blood sugar. That's all I wanted to tell you. Okay, in regards to that. But when it comes to cancer, effects of berries are amazing. First of all, they attenuate inflammation. They lower inflammation. They inhibit andioenesis. Did you already forget what androenesis is or do you still remember? I hope you still remember.

angiogenesis, the formation of blood vessels in tumors. They inhibit it, protect DNA damage. They protect DNA damage. They have effects on apoptosis. Did you already forget the word apoptosis or do you still remember apoptosis? Pro programmed cell deaths. So, it makes uh tumor cells die basically. Uh they also have observed researchers that is they have observed that berries extend their effects on the proliferation rates of pre- listen pre-malignant pre-malignant in other words before cancer even becomes cancer.

Isn't that amazing? uh not only berries uh help prevent cancer but it has been shown that consumption of other fruits and vegetables obviously all fruits and vegetables are associated with reduced cancer mortality. So, I want you to not just eat berries, okay? But I just wanted to say that berries are number one when it comes to amounts or concentration of uh antioxidants. They're the number one. But honestly, all fruits and vegetables are anti-cancer. So, do not leave the other ones out. That's why they tell us how many servings a day.

Remember, fruits and vegetables, how many? One, two, three, four, five. At least. Do you know that 98% of Americans do not eat five a day? 98%. Makes me want to cry. And now even the government says five a day is not even enough. It should be six to nine. How much is that? At least half a pound. At least. Are you eating half a pound of fruits and vegetables a day? Are we? Because actually should be about 600 grams. That's even more than half a pound. So about 300 gram of vegetables and 300 g of fruit a day every single day.

I hope I hope I hope we are trying at least to eat that much because they all fruits and vegetables inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells. Cancer cells. Here are some of the other ones that are top of the list. Apples, red grapes, bananas, grapefruits, peaches. Do you like any of those? I sure hope so. I like some of those. Aren't they delicious? Fruits are great. They're like the fast food made by God. What do you need to do to fruit to to uh make it taste good? Absolutely nothing. They taste good already.

They don't have to cook it after that. Salt, sugar, nothing. It's fast food, isn't it? Made by God. Okay. Now, we're going to talk about controversial. Are you ready? This is going to be controversial. Sorry, you guys. I need to say it. It needs to be said because this is uh Whoa. How can I say it? This is controversial. That's the word. Some people um Well, here's the thing. There's been misinformation. That's just the That's the truth. There's been a lot of misinformation. And you know why I believe the misinformation?

Well, I have I pretty much know the misinformation started because the food industry started uh spreading the misinformation about soy when soy became really uh popular even back in the I don't know 70s even when a lot of the you know hippie crunchy granola people started eating a lot of soy they wanted to stop eating meat and it became really uh it became really popular. But even before that, honestly, even before that, even in the 1960s, I would say when the health um Adventist health studies started to come out, the first ones, it showed that uh Adventists who ate back way back when, I mean, I'm talking about like the 60s, Adventists who were eating soy way back then were having less cancer.

uh than people who didn't eat soy. And the Adventists probably got the idea from, I don't know, ancient Asian cultures who've been eating soy since, I don't know, 5,000 years ago. I don't know, 2,000 years minimum. And they have less cancer. They've had less cancer this whole time. Anyway, I'm just going to give you the facts, okay? You can look it up. But here's the thing, always, always, always to the law and the testimony. See who's who's telling you all this information. Who where's the source?

Is the source reliable? Because when I first started doing these presentations 20 years ago, not lately, 20 years ago, I looked at the original source of the misinformation and it was mostly um people who were recommending at the time eat a very highfat diet. It wasn't the keto diet yet because keto diet wasn't around. It was people who were recommending eating lard, eating, you know, uh, beef tallow, all these other, you know, uh, source, of course, meat, red meat a lot. I'm like to the law the testimony.

No, this does not, this is not a good source of information. So, try to apply that, too. Okay? See who's recommending, you know, not eating soy or whatever. Okay? So, here's the thing. Why is it controversial to eat soy? Mostly because people talk about estrogen, right? Does soy have estrogen? No. Soy has isoflavones that are considered phyto remember the word phyto means plant. Phytoestrogens are plant compounds that mimic the effects of estrogen in the body. and are as these phytoestrogens are associated with a reduced risk of colorctyl and breast cancer.

Now contrary to the myths that circulate on social media networks on internet, soy not only does not cause cancer, hear me out, please just be patient. not only does not cause cancer, it actually prevents it. The according to studies of for example breast cancer survivors, consumption of soy, just 10 milligrams of isoflavins a day was associated with reduced cancer recurrence in one study of breast cancer. There's studies that they have done with soy where they showed 29% lower risk of dying from breast cancer and 36% lower risk of cancer recurrence.

I remember a lady uh this was maybe about 15 years ago, another church that I used to go to and she had had breast cancer and and then she had treatment or whatever and at our podlux she would say, "Oh, I can't have that because uh I had breast cancer. I can't eat soy. I can't eat tofu." misinformed because there's 36% lower risk of cancer recurrence if you eat soy. Now, I'm not talking about soy burgers, highly processed soy, I don't know, uh, hot dogs or something. I'm talking about soy in its less processed form.

Now, soy phytoestrogens activate the BA one and the BA 2 genes. I don't know if you've heard of these. These are anko suppressor genes. What does that mean? They suppress cancer development. These are genes that suppress cancer development. And some people have this genetic predisposition to cancer because they inherit there. It's a rare hereditary cancer because some people have this uh gene where it these bracket jeans aren't working properly. So this is that's why um that famous actress I forget her name she had double mastctomy.

What's her name? Anyway you guys know put in the chat for me because I remember I forgot her name. I'm blanking out right now, but people have this double mastctomy when they think they're going to have breast cancer because they lack the brack one, Bracka 2 genes. Well, phytoestrogens activate BA 1, Bracka 2. Isn't that amazing? I don't know how people know this. I have no idea. So, this is why soy consumption provides important benefits because they activate the BA uh these these ankosuppressor genes.

Okay. And so they they help people with hereditary cancer and non-hereditary cancer. So people who are worried about the estrogen thing, as I said last uh program, estrogen or soy, I mean the soy phytoestrogens are selective estrogen receptor modulators. What does that mean? They can generate positive effects of estrogen in some tissues such as the bone for example and then can have an listen anti-estrogenic effect in other tissues such as breast cancer when needed similar to some drugs. So in other words, they can help you uh pre you know like fight like have the anti-estrogenic effect when needed or pro-estrogenic effect when needed.

That's why it's selective selective estrogenic receptor modulators, positive effects. Is that It's pretty amazing. It's pretty amazing. So, um, and there's a whole there's a whole scientific explanation why they are selective. It has to do with the estrogen receptors alpha and beta. There's a whole explanation. I'm not going to go into it because it's long. I just wanted to tell you that the women with the highest soy isoflavin uh intake like Asian women for example who eat about one or two servings a day usually in the form of tofu or soy milk or whatever have the lowest risk rate for cancer recurring uh in women.

Ain't that amazing? lowest risk of cancer rec recurrence about half. Uh larger study in China was done showed the same positive effect of eating soy foods not supplements soy foods and both hormone receptor positive and hormone receptor negative cancers. So all I can tell you is this is what the researchers have found. Among women with breast cancer consumption, soy food was significantly associated with low risk of death and cancer recurrence. Okay. So if you hear misinformation, try to ignore it.

That's all I can say. Try to ignore it. Here's one study for instance that you can look at the study. Take a picture of the screen and then in your own time look it up. Read the study. Just read it. Okay. But as I was saying, health adventist study one. This was done. Okay. No, the one I was mentioning before was the uh Adventist mortality study that was done in the 50s. That was the first uh health adventist study, but it wasn't called health adventist study one. It was called the Adventist mortality study I think it was called and that found already decreased mortality.

But the health advent study one which was done in the 70s in particular found that men who drink soy milk more than once a day can reduce the risk for prostate cancer. Oh, Angelina Jolie, somebody put it. Thank you. Thank you you guys. Angelina Julie is the actress that took the double mastctomy and it's because of that rare form of hereditary cancer has to do with the bracka one and bracka 2 genes that suppressors um or that the yeah they're lacking those genes all right as I was saying men advent men who drink uh one or more um or drink soy milk one or once or twice or more a day I reduce the risk of prostate cancer by 70%.

That's quite significant. 70% is quite a bit. It is a lot. I think I think so. Here's another one. Uh people think, "Oh, men can't have a soy." Oh, no, no, no, no. That will interfere with their uh masculinity, I guess, or the fertility. Oh, no. They won't have babies. Oh, yeah. Well, uh, people in China eat a lot of soy and, uh, does it interfere with their fertility? Has been interfering with their fertility in the last 100 years? Uh, I don't think so. It's the most populated country in the world.

So, I don't think it's interfere with any fertility. Just saying. All right. Uh if you really want to know all the myths, if you want to dispel all the myths of soy, this study is the biggest study I've read or I have seen period. Not just in soy. It's the biggest study I have seen ever on anything. It's a meta analysis of 400 I I forgot how many exactly, but 467 I think studies. It's a huge study. is over 60 pages. It's the biggest study I've ever seen on anything. Uh it was done by Luminda I think researchers published in 2021 I think.

It's a really really big big study. I highly recommend it if you really want to go deep into it. And they honestly go through every single thing that people are worried about. Cancer, thyroid problems, hormonal imbalances, babies that drink too much soy formula or whatever. I don't know, adolescents, boys, girls, whatever. All of the issues with soy that you have heard right and left, they go through every single study that has been done regarding that particular topic and they analyze them, every single one and they come come to a conclusion regarding that.

And for the most part, I can tell you the bottom line is that they're not been proven. Uh scientifically speaking, they have not been proven. Most of the studies, most of the scary studies have been done with animals, not humans, with amounts of soy that you would have to eat a truckload of tofu to be able to achieve those kinds of concentrations of soy to get those kinds of effects. And they're usually not even foods. They're concentrates. They're not actually tofu or, you know, soy beans or soy milk.

No, they're concentrated uh tofu or I mean soy proteins or something. They're not foods. So, I don't know what else to say. These myths have been debunked. That's the bottom line. What else can I tell you? If you have questions, put them in the chat. If you have questions about soy, but bottom line, soy beans and the minimally processed soy foods that are made from soybeans, you can make soy milk at home. I just made it today. I make soy milk myself in my house with a soy milk maker that I bought.

It's like big thing like this. Mix it in about half an hour. I have the pulp. I use that pulp also. You can use the pulp to make I add it to my oatmeal. Yummy. It's good. Uh and then I drink the milk. That's it. With that milk, you can make tofu at home if you really want to take the time. The fact that you can make it at home indicates that tofu is a minimally processed food. It's not a highly processed food. If it was a highly processed food, you would not be able to make it at home. That's pretty much the definition of a highly processed food.

You can't make it at home. So, tofu is a minimally processed food. All right? So, if you eat those foods, you'll be good. By the way, here's another thing that you probably don't know. Okay? Did you know that flax, what you're seeing on the screen, flax food, everybody loves to talk about flax. Flax and chia, by the way, are very similar. They both have what what are called the omega-3 fatty acids. They're very anti-inflammatory as you probably know. They're awesome, right? They have the um the soluble fibers and all these awesome things.

All right. Wonderful. Okay. Well, flax flax foods are also anti-cancer. You know why? Because they have something called lignens. Lgmins. Lignens. Ah, that's awesome. Lignens prevent cancer. Whoa, that's great. I want some more lignens in my uh in my uh my life, right? I want lignens. Well, let me tell you something about lignens. Lgnens are phytoestrogens. Did you know that lignens are also phytoestrogens? That's why they fight cancer because they're phytoestrogens. You probably didn't know that.

Anyway, flax seeds um they've been studied they've been studied because they uh the effects of flax seeds have been studied on biomarkers of tumors and uh urinary excretions uh of lignens in postmenopausal patients newly diagnosed with breast cancer. And the researchers concluded that consumption of flax seeds has the potential to reduce tumor growth in breast cancer patients probably because they're phytoestrogens. Yeah. Awesome. So, let's consume uh flax seed. In fact, I actually recommend either flax seeds or chia seeds or a combination of both.

You can go back and forth. one day flax seeds, the other day chia, and just go back and forth every day, whatever you want. I do recommend them daily, especially if you are well actually daily all the time. Just period. Why? Because most people don't eat enough omega-3 fatty acids, just what it is. Most people eat a excess of omega6 and not enough omega-3. And we need omega-3s. We just don't get enough. If you eat an excess of omega-3 of omega6, you're not converting these omega-3s into longchain omega uh 3es.

These are short chain omega3s and you need to reduce the amount of omega6 in order to be able to convert these into longchain. So try to not eat oils. That's another reason why to not eat oils because if you're not if you're not reducing the oils, you're probably consuming an excess of omega6. that will not allow you to convert the short chain omega3 fatty acids and the chia and the flax into the DHA and EPA which are the longchain omega-3 fatty acids that have those anti-inflammatory effects that prevent cancer, heart disease, diabetes, etc.

Okay, so daily, how much? One tablespoon minimum. If you have diabetes, heart disease, whatever else, maybe one to two. If you have an autoimmune disease, more. Maybe up to a quarter a cup, possibly. Okay, possibly. Okie dokie. How about nuts and seeds? What do they do? They're amazing. Nuts and seeds. I have to finish. I better hurry. Okay. Nuts and seeds. What do they do? A study of consumption of nuts and seeds like walnuts, al almonds, na, hazelnuts, pistachios. Okay. They found that people who consume them two or more times a week lower the risk of pancreatic cancer, which is one of the deadliest, you guys.

Peanuts, which are botanically not uh nuts or seeds. They're actually a legume. I don't know if you knew this, but nutritional the nutritional properties because of the amount of fats or whatever they have, they're more like a nut. uh but they also were included in the in these studies and they found that actually peanuts are very good actually they are like third place if you will in their um anti-cancer properties and they have found that um they have respirator even like the thing that sometimes we hear like uh red grapes have um but they they prevent colon cancer um they uh have a role in the expression of estrogen receptors uh in to prevent malignant colon tissue from growing.

They have all kinds of very good things prevent metastasis. So two or more times a week in fact ideally every day. Okay. So that's nuts and seeds. Next. Did you know mushrooms? Oi, this one could be sometimes controversial for some people. People think some people think that we should not eat mushrooms, but honestly it's nowhere in the Bible or spirit of privacy. Oh, I hope I don't get in trouble. Oh, somebody asked me, "What's your opinion on wild strawberries, mulberries, mushrooms such as turkey tall?"

I have never heard of turkey tall mushroom. Blettes. We over here in Mountain. Well, if it's not poisonous, it's probably great. That's why I can tell you stay away from poisonous mushrooms or those that are magic magic mushrooms or you know ones that uh have psychedelic effects. But other than that uh mushrooms have been found. Okay, I'll tell you about mushrooms. Let me tell you real quick about mushrooms. Okay, mushrooms are wonderful. Even the white but uh white mushrooms those have been already have been found to have chemoprotective agents that prevent breast cancer um and other types of cancer.

So any any mushroom any mushroom they've done u uh studies that have that uh can prevent uh cancer the growth of tumors in breast cancer patients for instance um they have for instance they showed that white mushrooms extract reduce the uh tumor proliferation tumor weight without affecting uh other tissues. For instance, they have found um that invivo anti-cancer activity of white mushroom extract and its uh main fatty acid components among other mushrooms that have been studied that have anti-cancer effect are shiakei rishi antrodia confer which I don't know what that is but I'm probably going to look it up.

I think it's a mushroom from Taiwan. Uh but obviously there's other vegetables so not just mushrooms. Okay. So this particular study that I read about mushroom said also mentioned other vegetables that have phyitochemicals that suppress the same enzyme that mushroom suppresses. So the same enzyme that mushroom acts upon other vegetables act upon. And here are the other mush the vegetables that the same study mentioned which are bell peppers, broccoli, carrot, celery, chives and spinach. Cruciferous vegetables obviously beets.

So all Oh, and number one is garlic. Garlic number one vegetable that suppresses these enzymes that cause cancer. Same ones as mushrooms. But you know what? The simplest mushrooms that you find in any grocery store. You don't have to buy the very fancy ones. See that? They just want to sell you stuff. They just want you to spend money. Just buy white mushrooms. Uh what amount of greens? What does the amount of greens look like? What amount? Like a big salad. a big salad or a green smoothie. Big green smoothie.

That's the amount. Okay. Uh oh, I cannot forget to tell you about seaweeds. Seaweeds are the vegetables of the ocean. They have anti-cancer properties. A study published in a Japanese cancer research. Of course, they have to be Japanese because they love seaweed. Of course, they got a study about them. Uh they reported that uh just a type of seaweed that's widely consumed so nothing out of the ordinary just a very common seaweed uh that was considered safe inexpensive mabu has the potential to prevent human breast cancer they study a lot of breast cancer I guess over there it's very common obviously in women so they reported that uh this solution of macabu had induced apoptosis there's that word again you program cell death and three types of breast cancer and these effects were more intense than those of chemotherapeutic agent in other words chemotherapy.

Um in addition um it was observed that no apoptosis in normal human breast cells. So it didn't affect the human breast cells just the bat cells. Uh, also they did a study with seaweeds in here in the Bay Area and it if you eat normal amounts of seaweed, it does not risk your thyroid. Some people are worried about too much seaweed can affect your thyroid because of the iodine. Okay. Well, don't eat too much. Just eat normal amounts. Don't eat like a whole pound of seaweed every day. Just eat normal amounts.

Moderate amounts of seaweed and just maybe two or three times a week instead of every day. maybe the equivalent of one nori sheet per day. One nori sheet per day, no more than that. And you're fine. And you'll get your iodine not in excess, also not in deficit. It's what you need. All right. So, uh some authors consider seaweed as disease preventtors and health promoters because they help prevent cancer and also other cons conditions associated with metabolic syndrome. Seaweed contains phytonutrients not found in other foods such as some types of fiber.

One type of fiber called algenate only found in seaweed no other foods. Unique keratenoids one called fuga fuccoantin. unique polysaccharides. I'm not going to pronounce them too hard, but only found in seaweeds and several defense polyphenols that have anti-cancer properties. And they're only found in seaweeds. You're not going to find them anywhere else. Ain't that amazing? Okay, I'm not going to say you absolutely have to eat them. But if you eat once in a while see seaweed, seaweed salad for instance, now you know.

or nori sheets. Buy the nori sheets and then you put stuff in there, veggies, some avocado, whatever, and roll them up and make like a little burrito or something, your own sushi. What do you think about that? Okay, don't forget having a strong immune system is how you prevent cancer. So do all the things that help you to have an immune system. What helps you to have a strong immune system? What do you think helps helps you to have a strong immune system? Obviously following all the eight principles of health, good diet, but exercise.

You can eat perfect diet and not exercising. What's that going to do? And if you're not sleeping, if you're not drinking water, what's that going to do? You can be have a perfect diet and still not have good health. If you're violating the laws of health, the other laws of health. If you're sleeping four hours a night, I don't care how perfect your diet is. I really don't care how perfect your diet is. You're still going to get sick. I'm sorry. That's just how it is, okay? If you're not getting enough sunlight to produce enough vitamin D, you have your immune system's going suffer.

You need that vitamin D. Not too much. If you're two hours out in the sunlight, you're going to get too much UV radiation that might cause cancer. See how it works? Okay. Last thing I'm going to mention is the effects of fasting. Just I just think it's remarkable because they have found fasting actually helps chemotherapy work better. It has a selective effect on making cancer cells more uh vulnerable to the chemotherapy and radiation treatments and protects normal cells from the radiation and chemotherapy treatment.

So it helps people going through chemotherapy and radiation to not have the side effects of those treatments. And the people who didn't go through the radiation and chemotherapy the can the fasting but it has to be at least I think longer fasting not just 24 hours like maybe 48 to 72 hours of water fasting has a very similar effect to chemotherapy. It almost has the same effects on cancer cells as chemotherapy. Now I'm not saying skip the chemo. I can't tell you that. I'm just saying people who voluntarily didn't want to do the chemo or couldn't do the chemo maybe for whatever reason and they fasted, they had a similar effect that what chemotherapy could do.

But if you do the chemo and the fasting, it's better than chemotherapy alone, which is important to know. I think patients should know. And actually, you can actually read about this. There's a book called Fasting for Cancer um written by this uh researcher who came up with something called the fasting mimicking diet. It's kind of expensive protocol. You can actually do it. You can order the fasting mimicking diet. It comes to your house like a box. I don't work for them. I don't don't think I work for them.

It's kind of expensive actually, but it's very good and you can do it once a quarter or whatever. It has the benefits of doing the fasting without really fasting. It's like a very low calorie, but it's formulated to have the same effects as fasting. So, anyway, so this is what uh my husband is doing. Oh, no, it's covered. Some of it is covered, but I just wanted to let you know that uh my husband refused the cancer. I didn't tell him to refuse the cancer. I actually wanted him to do the cancer so they wouldn't blame me that I made him refuse the cancer.

Actually, I said, you know, you should consider it because I don't want to be blamed. but he's like, "Nope." His chances of it coming back without the chemo were not that great anyway. So, he decided not to have it. But he's doing a whole food plant-based diet. He stopped eating sugar. He was eating sugar. He was one of those vegans who eats sugar and chips. Well, he stopped. He did daily juices for two years. He made his own juice every morning. vegetables, no fruit. Uh because you do concentrate the sugar of the fruit when you make juice.

So he made only vegetables, only put vegetables. I made him green smoothies for about 6 months and turmeric shots for about 6 months. After that, he started putting turmeric in his own juice. He put garlic in his juice, by the way. Garlic, number one, anti-cancer vegetable. Not a lot because otherwise you start smelling like it way too much. So about, you know, maybe one or two cloves of garlic. Salads. He did not eat salads previous to this. Maybe one salad week. He eats his daily salad and he still does it every single day.

Thank goodness. Broccoli sprouts. I, as I said, I make them for him. He still eats them every day. This is still hard for him. Make sure you buy organic. He's forgets. Okay. If you're going to buy organic. If you're only going to buy one organic thing, okay? One organic fruit or vegetable, make sure it's strawberries. Strawberries are the number one fruit or vegetable with the most amount of chemicals and the most toxic chemicals, I should say. We I live right here, you know, the uh central coast of California where they grow like 90 some percent of the the strawberries and I could tell you those fields are covered up with plastic.

Uh the rows of of strawberries are covered up with plastic. Under those plastic under that plastic is all the chemicals are concentrated and that stuff is very poisonous. I if you're going to just choose one fruit or vegetable to make sure it's organic, I would say strawberries. Just strawberries. Now, you can look up the dirty 12 or something is called dirty dozen. I don't know what it's called. Dirty dozen, I think, of the top high, you know, fruits and vegetables that have the most fertilizers and pesticides or something like that.

I don't know. Maybe pick the top five and make sure those are always organic or something. Top three, whatever. But if it's one, I would say vegetables. That's what I would choose. And as I said before, other life factors like the eight the new start principles. All right. And I'm going to skip the story of this lady. This if you want to read it on your own, I would highly recommend it. Her name is uh Ruth Hydridge. And you can read her story. Ruth Hydridge, Dr. Ruth Hydridge, PhD. how she basically um fought cancer with a plant-based diet and she's in her 80s.

She's gotten all kinds of Oh, this is Dr. Lorraine Day. That's another story of cancer going away with plant-based diet. So, Ruth Hydrickch and Lorraine Day, those good stories, look them up. Okay, we'll finish with this um with this verse again. Exodus 15:26. If you diligently heed the voice of the Lord your God, and do what is right in his sight, give ear to his commandments, including the laws of health, commandments, laws of health, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you which I have brought on the Egyptians.

For I am the Lord who heals you. Who heals you? He is our healer, our savior. Thank you. We I want to thank God every day for being our healer and our savior. I want to give you one more time my uh my website healthfortoday.net. As I said in the beginning, I want to apologize if I haven't responded to your messages uh this week because it was terrible week for work for work. But this week will be much better. This is our last week of our 10day uh challenge at my work. I do 10day challenges at work and uh and this Sunday we'll do our checkup to see how our participants were doing.

So I am excited about that. But if you have questions, if you want to do the 10day program, download it from my website health4today.net is right there as you see it on top. the Daniel challenge just like Daniel. Maybe one day we should organize one with this group, True Health Tuesday. We should just do one. Don't you think? I think we should. Anyway, if you want to do one, let me know. We should organize one maybe online. True Health Tuesday 10day challenge. If you have any questions, uh I'm still here or else we'll finish.

Oh, by the way, here's a You can do a banana split, you guys. Banana split. Healthy banana split. If you want to know the recipe, you have to download it. It doesn't have ice cream. Is a healthy version of a banana split. What do you think? All right. If there's any questions, um I can maybe answer one or two because it's super late. But otherwise, I'll finish with a prayer cuz again, I forgot to pray in the beginning like I do because I'm just terrible. I'm not very good at this still. But I will get better.

I will get better. I will eventually learn how to do this right and start with a prayer. I have to put like a post-it note or something. I don't know. All right, you guys. So, any questions? If you have any questions, put in the chat. All right, any questions? Or if not, we will end. Thank you for being here, you guys. What goes in the green smoothie? All right, I'll give you the green smoothie. Anti-inflammatory green smoothie. This I did not come up with it. I saw it from Dr. uh Brooke Goldner, who has a protocol for u inflammatory autoimmune diseases.

You might know her already. If you don't, look her up. Dr. Brooke Goldner. She 20 years ago or something like that by now, I think she had lupus and she came up, well, she found out by accident that some fruit, I think it was blueberries, had some anti-inflammatory effect. She's a doctor, medical doctor, and she's like, "Whoa, how come I never heard of this?" She started looking up more, you know, foods that might be anti-inflammatory. She found all kinds of fruits and vegetables, whatever. Eventually, she's like, "Okay, well, I need to change my diet."

And she basically went on a whole food plant-based diet, but she needed to include a lot of greens. So, how? At first, she was eating gigantic salads, but it was hard to eat like two big salads a day. Like, how how am I going to do this? So, eventually, she's like, "Okay, I'm going to make a smoothie." So, here's a smoothie. She takes here's a like a blender jar, right? Okay. Blender jar. threearters of it is greens. And when I make the smoothie for my uh participants, I'm like, don't just like and all of a sudden it's full.

No, no, no. You've got to push them down. Just she does this, too. She pushes them down. So, it's like squishes them. Three4ers of the uh jar of the blender, right? Threearters of it is greens. It doesn't have to be the same. In fact, I recommend it being different all the time. Okay? So, one day you might do spinach or whatever. Don't do spinach all the time. That would be too much oxilates. You want to change it up. Okay? One day kale. Maybe do like a green h super green mix or whatever from Costco.

One of those mixes. Okay. So, kale could be could be even spring mix could have different like lettucees or something like that. All right. So greens, mix of greens, dark leafy, put them in there. And the rest, so one quarter could be fruits, whatever fruit you like. It could be one fruit like mango. It could be many fruits. Could be berries of course, a little banana, piece of banana, whatever you want. And then you fill it up to however much water, enough to blend. But if you want it very liquidy, you put more water.

You can put it up to 3/4 water or half, you know, depends on how thick you want it. Now, if you are not used to green smoothies and you want it a little bit sweeter, you can put a couple dates, you know, like, by the way, I found some studies that at first I was kind of worried about giving dates to my participants because I'm like, I don't want their blood sugars to go up and I only one date, you guys. But then I found some studies that dates actually don't elevate blood sugar at all or too much.

So maybe you can put two dates, three dates, depends. Okay, but not like a whole pound of dates, obviously. Two dates, maybe maybe a little bit of stevia if you're okay with that. There's actually green leaf stevia, like actually powdered stevia. It's not a extract. It's just the leaves that been powdered up. You can actually grow the stevia yourself anyway. put a little bit of that or I don't know, honey, I guess something like that. Um, and blend it. Now, if you're going to use it as a meal replacement, then put more stuff.

That's not going to keep you, you know, like from breakfast to lunch, you got to put maybe some oats. I don't know, put some tofu even if you need some food. Okay, that's not enough uh to keep you for one, you know, that's not enough for a meal. So, put more. maybe a handful of walnuts, something to add calories if it's going to be a meal replacement. If it's not a meal replacement, then the vegetables, the fruit, it's enough. And then you can She drinks the whole thing. Not all at once. Maybe maybe divide it up in two.

Uh but she drinks the whole thing in one day. That's for autoimmune diseases. If you don't have an autoimmune disease, you don't have to drink it maybe all in one day. You can save half for tomorrow. That's fine, too. Okay. So, that's the green smoothie uh recipe. All right. Uh do we need soaked nuts? Better if they're soaked. It starts the um the process of of the germination, I guess, sprouting process. So, it does change a little bit of the composition of the nutrients, if you will. And also if you're going to make something with them, like if you're going to make like a cashew cream or whatever, it makes them softer.

So it's better if you soak them, but you don't absolutely have to. It's a preference. It does start the sprouting process. So it does change a little bit of the compositions better. All right. We don't have soybeans here. We have kidney beans, chickpeas, and broad beans. Well, that's wonderful. All beans, legumes are very, very good for you. They are the number one source of fiber in the diet, all beans in general. Um, so I recommend them to I recommend them every day honestly because of the are they're great sources of protein.

Even though when you do the, you know, diabetes diet or whatever, they say, "Oh, no, they're carbs." Honestly, most of the carbs are fiber. So, if you take that away, they have actually a good amount of protein. They do provide dietary proteins. And of course they have carbs and they also have fiber. So some of those carbs are fibers. They are a good source of protein. Okay. Um and fiber soluble fibers. Those are the fibers that help to maintain blood sugars very stable throughout the day. So they're excellent.

If you're diabetic, I recommend eating half a cup per meal. Okay. So all in fact, I recommend a variety. So you're saying kidney beans, chickpeas, broad beans. Yes, add more lentils, fava beans, you know, just eat a variety because the more variety the better. You're getting different nutrients. The more variety the better. Does green smoothie have to be organic better. If it's organic, definitely. Yeah. The the more organic the better. If you're not getting organic, try to wash them as much as you can.

Wash them. even soak them a little bit of maybe uh vinegar water and then rinse them really well or a little bit of salt water and then rinse them very well. That removes a lot of the chemicals. So yes, I would do that. If not, grow them yourself. If you have a little bit of, you know, land, a little bit of a backyard or a balcony, even grow them in pots, that could be done. I've done it, you know. So, anything you can grow is better than none. But if you can't grow them at all at all at all then and if you can't afford organic some greens is better than no greens at all wash them really well soak them for 10 minutes in salt water and then rinse them and that will and even uh um baking soda.

So vinegar, salt or baking soda three things you can soak them with but don't forget to rinse them. Rinse them very well and that eliminates uh a lot of the chemicals in those fruits or vegetables. Okay, you guys, thank you once again. Sorry to one hour and 27 minutes, but I think we learned something. Put a one in the chat if you learned something today that you didn't know before. Did you learn something? I hope you did. And I want to tell you something. Seriously, this is not just for us. This is for sharing.

This is for helping others. What we learn, we need to give to others. Make sure you give this blessing to others. Take this message, spread it. There's a one. Yay. Somebody learned something. That's enough for me. Even one person. Um, make sure that you give this to others. Now, if you've learned something, you've been blessed today, make sure you bless others with it, maybe give this link even, you can give this link, but if you can be that messenger, spread this to other people so that other people learn that God has given us these foods.

He put the medicine in the food, you guys. The medicine is in the food. We oh last thing before I pray we actually have a conference called food as medicine. It's for health care providers mainly. So if you're a healthcare provider we give cus and cmemes for healthcare providers are dietitians and nurses and doctors one day uh 5.5 I think no 7.5 CMEs and C cus. It's going to be in October. Uh but it's also an online and anybody can do it. It's not priced for great because it's for doctors, but it's there's an online version.

The version is a little bit uh lower. Um and it's eat for the earth. No, no, no. It's food for medicine. No, food for medicine cruise.org if you're interested. It's food for food for no food as medicine. Sorry. Food asmed Santa Cruz.org. And the CME are provided by Adventist Health. CME CEUS Food as Medicine Santa Cruz.org. All right, let's pray. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for this opportunity. Thank you for helping us to learn about you and the foods you have provided. Thank you for putting the medicine in the food.

Thank you for helping us know more about the blessings you have given us through this message that uh can heal us. Thank you for being our healer, our savior. Help us to live this message and then to spread it to others to help others to get to know you as well as their healer and their savior. be with us the rest of today and um thank you again for everything you have given us. Thank you Jesus in Jesus name. Amen. Thank you once again for being with us. We'll see you in two weeks. Okay, next uh program is going to be about food.

Oh no, sugar. Is sugar a poison? That's what I'm going to talk about. Thank you again. We'll see you next