Welcome to Mental Health Monday. We am sorry for no intro. It's just us, so we didn't give you any preparation, but we're so happy that you are here with us, Dr. White and myself, Atante Meyers. We're just thrilled to be here with you. We're back from our summer break. Um, and we're just again excited to be here. So, welcome to all of you from all around the country and the world. And yes, we are having just a little bit of technical issues. I know I'm glitchy a little bit and um I don't know, Dr.

White might be completely in focus to you guys, but on my end, he looks a little out of focus, but we decided, you know what, we're going to go live and start to share the things that we are planning to share and take your questions as a as well because you make this program uh make it work. So, welcome, welcome. I almost said Pastor White. Dr. White. >> You know, you know what, Dante? I don't see Clint. >> I Oh, wow. I don't see Clint. Yeah. >> Oh, there he is. There he is. Now I see. All right.

That's it. >> It's like, don't ever. We're sorry. >> He's not He's not in the number one spot. That's what I But but we have Gwendalin in the number one spot. So, hey, you're holding it down, Gwendalin. >> Yes. >> Absolutely. >> Right. Actually, I see Travis as my number one. So, I don't know if our I see Travis Travis H., good to see you. >> He's my number two. He's my number two. >> He's your number two. All right. Um All right. >> Well, tell us where you're coming from. >> Yeah. Please put in the chat.

I see Cindy is saying that she's watching from Coffee Springs, Alabama. Coffee Springs. I don't know where Coffee Springs is. And I'm in Alabama, too. Never heard of it, >> but that's great. Coffee Springs. Now, how was your summer, Sister Tante? >> Oh, it was great. It was great. I was just telling um um Ivor a a few weeks ago that it really was a great summer because we got to spend time with family and you know, we got to go to Italy and different parts of Europe and that was a lot of fun because where we were, but also because we were with family.

>> Our mothers were there, our children were there. It just it was nice. It was a nice time and >> other travels too. Just the summer was nice. And you know what made it the best summer? >> It was not that hot here in Alabama. It really was. And it's like I heard some locals say that this was the uh coolest summer that they've seen in like years or ever really. So I don't know. We had a pretty mild summer heatwise. So I don't know what it was like for you in Southern California, but here in Alabama we were pretty cool.

So how about your summer? We had a number of days in the triple digits, which always makes things uh interesting. But fortunately, it's a dry heat. Fortunately, it's a dry heat, so that's so much more tolerable. >> Um, but uh we didn't we didn't do very much traveling this summer. Um, we I remember we did the Euro tour a few years ago, but we did it like uh in one of those guided tours. >> I don't recommend it. >> Oh my goodness. >> Okay. Yeah, I remember I remember being jealous of like my like meat eatating counterparts because their dessert looked delicious.

And so I was like, "Hey man, what about the dessert for the vegetarians?" >> The guy brings a styrofoam cup with an apple in it. And he's like, "Here's your dessert." >> I'm like, "Okay." >> Wow. >> It was fun otherwise. >> Yes. Well, I want to say hi to We have people. Travis is in Florida. So, welcome again, Travis. Um, we have Ella in Australia. Welcome. And Perth, Australia. Ella, I've never been to Perth side. I've been to Sydney and Melbourne and but never Perth. But welcome. Tell tell me what tell us what time it is there.

Is it It's tomorrow. I know it's Tuesday, but what time is it? Uh, and then we have Terry from Louisiana. Welcome. So good to see all of you here with us. This is the first season 4. Season four. >> This is season four. >> That's pretty cool. >> Pretty cool, Dr. White. We're like been here for a while. >> Absolutely. And especially when it doesn't feel like it. >> No, it doesn't feel like it. It's a lot of fun. It's a lot of fun. >> No question. >> Um, yes. And I want to say welcome to Shereice from Virginia.

Good to see you here. Good to see you here. But Dr. White, tell us um about our theme for this year for season 4. >> We're so excited and because we want to be intentional and with it being season 4, we have to uplevel our game. So our overarching theme is going to be a growth mindset. A growth mindset. And all the episodes are going to be one way or another connect connected to having a growth mindset. So we estimate that they're going to be about 18 episodes and those 18 episodes are going to be organized around four concepts.

Um the first part of the season we're going to talk about is vision. Okay, the critical role of vision. Um you all know that the proverbs say um where there is no vision the people you guys could fill it let's let's see if they'll fill it in the blanks where there's no vision the people perish. So the the first part um we're going to talk about vision. Then in the second part then we are going to talking about goals. All right, because once you get clarified on your vision, then it's time to actually set some goals.

All right, set, hey, what is it that we're actually going to be working for in order to execute the vision? All right, and so once you've set your goals, then the next thing you have to think about then is execution. All right, no more time. It's now time to act. it's time to bring that vision into reality. And so, um, execution is going to be next. And then in the last part, we're going to talk about reflecting. Um, too often we get so busy in the process of doing, we don't take the time to reflect.

We don't take the time to ask ourselves, what did I learn from this process? Um, what how can I celebrate this? And then at the same time also think to myself well how could I make this even better? How can I innovate? So reflection is a pivotal part of um or innovation is a very important part of reflecting. In fact reflecting sets the stage so that you can then innovate. So as you put that together that will support us developing a growth mindset. So, did Ella make a donation? Is that what that is?

$2.99. >> I >> I wonder. >> I know. I was asking for the time. >> Oh. Oh. >> Oh. >> 2.99 is still not a time. >> That's not a time. I wonder if that's money. If that's money, >> you guys all need to follow Ella. [Laughter] But anyway, that that is kind of the overview on how we see this season unfolding. >> Um, so yeah, what do you guys think? What are your thoughts? >> Yes. Well, hopefully you guys are looking forward to that, but put in the chat, what are your thoughts? And um you know we're going to be talking about uh today about our emotions and how to um you know how we can be mindful enough to get control of our negative emotions.

Um controlling our negative thoughts and emotions before they turn into something really really bad. And of course we just want to mention what the whole world is talking about. Um, and we're not here to do a whole program on u the tragedy that happened last week uh with Charlie uh Kirk and um all of that. But I mean, we're here to mention it a little bit, but not to take a deep dive into that because that's not what the program is about. But it's it's really uh it's really we're focusing more on um how our negative and toxic thoughts can turn into bad emotions and then really bad behaviors like what we saw last week and it could affect our life forever.

Um because um that's what happened to um the young man that took uh Charlie's life and of course it affects his wife and his children and and so many others. And so, uh, we know there's a lot of feelings both ways with this is just a really, um, just a really, um, horrific time in Earth's history, right? I mean, there's always a lot of bad things that happen and this is not the first assassination of a, you know, a public figure and but, um, it's it's still it's it's just a it's just a sad time.

And, but we know those things are coming. Those of us who are Bible believing uh Christians, we know that the world um is not going to get better before we believe Jesus is coming back. And so these things are going to happen. However, there's things that we can do for ourselves um and and controlling working on our negative thoughts and emotions. And so uh what are your thoughts, Dr. white. >> Well, I I I think with Yeah, I mean I I think with Charlie Kirk being as young as he was, uh he was, you know, impacting a lot of people.

Um but especially a lot of young people, they have some really passionate feelings about him on either side. >> Yes. Uh and then now you compound that with the the graphic nature of the death and it really leaves the mind in a really kind of um raw state, >> lot a lot of emotion, lot of energy, >> right? >> And the question before you and it's the same question you're facing in every situation that you encounter. What will you do with the energy? >> Like Charlie Kirk? What will you do with the energy?

Don't like Charlie Kirk? What will you do with the energy? Um, completely frustrated with how the whole incident unfolded. Um, what will you do with the energy? >> Um, will you take time to speak your truth? Um, and also as you look at the huge problems this world is facing right now, what's your contribution to solving the issue? Because what you see, Sister Tante, is that energy, it's not just there to sit there. That energy needs to be funneled in to doing something positive, something productive.

>> Um, that really is is the issue. And the key is to not just be paralyzed. >> Most definitely. Um and yeah, to do something good with that energy, the good thing would be to show love, to show love in that space. Um and that, you know, especially to show love, to show compassion, to show empathy. Um it's, you know, it's just to show love and empathy in that space. You know, I was talking to someone the other day and I was like, you know, it's not really difficult to show empathy to people you love.

>> But it is challenging at times to show empathy to people who don't think like you, look like you, act like you. Um and so >> or vote like you. >> Or vote like you, right? or vote like you. Um, and so we need to show more empathy. Um, try to be understanding. Um, and of course you're not going to always perfectly agree and um, but not allowing that emotion of anger, rage to take over. >> No question. any situation in any situation. I mean, I like to bring it home practically. >> Um because the people that we deal with the most are >> are in our home, our spouses, our children, our other family members, our co-workers.

That's who we deal with the most. Those are like our our dry runs. You know what I mean? Those are who we practice with. Does that make sense? Like >> Now, let me see. What about those who didn't know the person who was murdered and feel neutral? What do you think about that, Sister Tante? What about those who didn't know the person who was murdered and feel neutral, >> right? Um, you know, there's Yeah, there's no nothing. Yeah, I'm there's nothing wrong with that. I mean, I'm sure you don't if you none of us Well, no, nobody I Well, actually, that's not true.

Do you know somebody who actually knew Charlie Kirk, believe it or not, but um it's not about um and that it's not it's not about knowing knowing him. Um and I'm sure all of us as humans and as uh we just of course when someone someone loses a life no matter who they are, we should care. I mean um it doesn't matter the situation. I mean the fact somebody lost their life um they were killed we should care we should you know didn't know him but um the children lost their father a a wife lost her husband that we should have empathy or compassion about that and even on the flip side for I have as a mental health professional I mean and I don't think I have to be a mental health professional but even for the young man who allegedly took his life.

Like I have empathy and compassion for him because in my mind as a mental health professional I I I don't know about you Dr. Wright, but I automatically and I'm sure the same for you, but I automatically go to what was going on um in his life. He was obviously a very broken person in a situation. And my camera is doing really weird things. There's like half of me. I might actually go to You guys can hear me. You don't have to see me. >> Loud and clear. Yeah. Loud and clear. >> Okay. I'm still here.

That's better. Camera's doing weird things. >> Yeah. >> So, I was just gonna say that. >> Go ahead. Yeah. >> I was just gonna say, you know, thinking I I have empathy for the young man because >> not I mean, of course, he needs if if when he's found guilty and and and everything is done correctly, of course, justice has to be served. But in my mind, I'm like, man, what went wrong? like why would you go get to that point? How did that happen? I mean that's, you know, that's that's just where my mind goes to at 22 years old.

I have a 22 year old. In a week, she'll be 22. And I'm like, what happens in that short amount of time? Well, I mean that really is why we this is why we do the program that we do >> because it's our goal to share mental health principles that hopefully would be helpful. >> Um, and you know, it's just a matter of doing what it is that we can in this situation. Let's see what Deborah said. How do the things we look at, the things we listen to, the people we interact with cause negative emotions on us?

Please explain um how that works. You know, it's interesting. Uh Deborah, uh before getting on, I was looking for a nice available description of stress because if you look up stress, the definition can be so laborious and unavailable. Stress ultimately is the resulting experience from demand. All right? the resulting experience from demand. So as you're going through everything you just mentioned, >> whether something that you look at, whether it's something to whether it's someone you're interacting with, there are emotions that can result as you start to feel demand like you've got to do something.

Now believe it or not there is good stress which we call ust stress. And so now if the demand you feel like you have actually adequate resources for well that's actually good stress that's good. But when the demand leaves you feeling overwhelmed because your resources are inadequate to address the demand. That's when we talk about distress. Distress. So just in understanding that it equips you to now start pulling back and assessing what does this mean to me? What demand is this placing on me? And therefore what is the resulting stress that I'm experiencing?

Is it over in the distress category? And what do I need to do to pull it back into the ustress category? That's why the reality is it's really important for us to always be tracking what is it that's within my control. What can I control and what can I not control? because it is incredibly distressing to be trying to control things that you can't. And that that is at the hallmark of a lot of the negative emotions that you're talking about where sometimes we feel overpowered or overwhelmed because sometimes we're trying to control things that we can't.

And by the way, we are forgoing dealing with things that are within our control. So we are hyperfocused on the the news media and it's distracting us from preparing for the presentation that we have tomorrow for work, let's say, okay, or for church or for what have you. Um, now you've missed the opportunity to prepare for something that was within your control and and now you have some self-inflicted distress. So, this is what you're trying to avoid. Deborah, does that make sense? Was that helpful to you?

Put a one in the chat if that was helpful. >> Yeah, let us know. Let us know. >> Yeah, that makes that makes a ton of sense, though. Yeah. And of course, >> Let's see. >> Let's see. The point said the spiritual war we are in is very real. This should wake us all up to the seriousness of it all. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So, yeah. So, Clint was saying, "The spiritual war we're in is very real. This should wake us all up." And uh Charlotte put a one in the chat. Well, thank you for that, Charlotte. >> Um thank you very much for that.

>> Yeah. So, >> yes, please put your questions in the chat because you guys are definitely part >> of the program. Um but we were talking but we also said you know we're going to talk about um just because obviously I mean we have none of us know exactly uh I mean we know that someone is is was killed and uh we don't know everything behind the scenes and how it got to that point. Um but obviously um you know someone I mean that the young man got to the point where he felt like this is the only the only way and it's almost like um his mind was just was taken over by uh the anger um and the the negative thoughts and and and and things like that.

And so people >> any idea what he was angry about? Well, there's a lot of I don't know for him. I I don't know. I know this is it's still unfolding, but um you know, Charlie Kirk because I see people in the chat saying, "Well, I didn't know anything about him." Of course, they found out when he was passed away, but you know, he was loved by many, but he was hated by many or many disagreed with him. I don't know. I mean, hate hated hated is hate is a huge a very strong word. So, you know, it could be any of the things that he spoke about.

He definitely um spoke about and he was very open about his thoughts and feelings u about a lot of things um dealing with a lot. He was a lot of things. I mean, deal dealing with black people here in America, um the LGBTQ community, um just a lot of very strong conservative values that um a lot of con I shouldn't say a lot that some conservative people uh believe in, but was very vocal about it and and he offended a lot of people. So, I don't know um what this young man's issue was and really not to highlight those issues.

That's not the point of this program. >> Really, >> we want to talk about when somebody doesn't agree with you, when somebody uh doesn't see things uh the way you see them. Um or even you feel, you know, you you know how they make you upset, they make you you you're passionate about, you know, whatever. How do you turn that into something healthy instead of something negative that can take over you and cause you to do something that you're going to regret? >> Well, I I think it's critical to recognize that our life if assuming we're Christians, >> then then our life is not our own.

And the Christian lives under the mandate take up your cross and follow me. >> Not take up, you know, something pleasant. It's take up your cross and follow me. So in other words, um we should be followers of Christ. And we should commit ourselves to really tuning into Christ and asking, "Hey, how would you like me to respond?" Now, Clint is asking this really interesting question. He's like, "How do we put kindness into action as the default response to situations?" Now, I think this is where sometimes the world can really struggle with the Christian faith or the Christian theology with a really a misunderstanding.

Are we always called to be kind? hate to be controversial here, but I don't know that we're always called to be kind. Sometimes we are called to hold people accountable. Sometimes we are called to speak truth to power. Sometimes we are called to to defend the weak, you know. >> Um sometimes to defend the poor. Um and sometimes holding people accountable is an act of kindness. So um we we discipline our children and we don't do it from a place of hate. We actually do it from a place of love because we understand um the goal is to help you be a functioning contributing member to society.

And I think that's more realistic than the idea that I'm always to be bringing gifts of sugar plums. Doesn't work that way. Um so the but the real question that we're going to live under is who told you to do that? Who told you to do that? Did you tell yourself to do that or did God tell you to do that? And the significance there is as Christians, we're always at risk of being told of of of saying to Christ, "Hey, I did this on your behalf. I did this on your behalf. I did this on your behalf." And Christ responding, "I never knew you.

>> I never knew you." No, but I I did all these wonderful things, but I never knew you. You didn't tune in to me. We didn't we didn't have an intimate experience where I outlined for you how I wanted to use your life >> in this grand purpose for the way of redeeming the world. >> And I think we we work independently. We we do what we feel like doing rather than saying what would God have me do? What would love really look like in this situation as ordained by God as outlined by God? Clint's got a comeback.

Compassion should always be in our approach though. Correct. compassion should always be in our approach. Correct. Um, I'm repeating the question. I think we should always be prepared to be compassionate. I think the priority though is follow what God would have us do. Um, please do not believe I'm advocating for violence. That is not what I'm saying right now. But if you trace the steps of Christ, he does he does get a little angry in the temple. And if you if you suspect that he didn't deviate from God or deviate from his mission, it's to show you the different faces of love, the different faces of love.

And you'll only know what that means if you're tuned in meaningfully to God. And I'm not talking about those sweet Christian brothers and sisters who, you know, the Lord told me something. No, I'm not talking about that fake stuff because we all have been victimized by people saying that the Lord told them to do stuff and the Lord did not tell him to do anything. >> No, I'm talking about for real for real when God is ordering your steps. When God is telling you this is what I would have you do, it's the David who says, "Hey, should I go up and do X, Y, or Z?"

Sometimes God says yes and then other times God is like nah wait till I send some wind through the mulberry trees or whatever the tree was. But it it's not always yes. Sometimes God will have a different command for you. So um the the priority is God that God is ordering our steps. Um then you're good to go, >> right? And I think what's difficult for us as humans um is when we are upset about something that someone said and again I like to make it as practical as possible because the majority of us are not dealing with um I we mean in the world of politics or the world of that where people are saying pay like I'll be honest like I knew who Charlie Kirk was.

I knew I didn't agree with a lot of things he said, so I just didn't watch him or listen to him, right? I just didn't do it because I can do that. Um, but there's people who wanted to engage or listen to everything. So, I'm saying that typically we're not going to be in that situation where we're dealing with somebody on that level, right? But who we are dealing with is again our spouse, our significant other, our children, our our family member, extended family member. And they will do things and say things that we don't agree with and we don't like.

How do we respond to them? And um you know something that I love to teach and and remind myself as well because I am absolutely not perfect uh but is to put ourselves on adult timeouts, right? We have to put oursel on an adult timeout. You you your husband, your wife says something you don't like, take a deep breath. And maybe it's more than a deep breath that you need to take. You have to literally go put yourself in a timeout in the corner. It doesn't have to be in the corner. It could be in the other room.

But what I love to tell people, but you can't just do that, especially couples, your spouse, you can't just walk out and not say anything. You have to say, you know, I'm just going to go take a moment for myself. That is that is the highest level of maturity. And that that's hard. That's hard to do. It's hard to do. But when you take a deep breath and actually don't operate just off of the emotion, but allow this, if you guys could see me, which you cannot, but I'm pointing to my forehead, this preffrontal cortex of my brain, our brains, if we could just open that up and operate from there, we're going to make the right decision.

We're going to say the right thing. We're not going to just respond uh with the emotion of you hurt my feelings. Um I don't like what you said. I'm going to respond in the most ugliest way that I can. I'm going to do something, say something, throw something, god forbid, do anything physically, something that's going to harm you. Um but that's what happens when we don't put ourselves in adult timeout. Take the deep breath. Go just have a conversation. And we call it prayer as Christians, but go have a conversation with God to help you, to calm you down, you know, because those feelings, those emotions, situations can get us to do things that um when we don't allow that to happen that we they can cause us or we can choose to give in and and it can cause us to do things that we will definitely regret.

>> No. Profound. I mean, you should charge them for that one, sister. That was like straight psychotherapy 101. Um, the word I would use is pause. Oh my goodness. Pause. >> When you are in crisis, right, when you are in crisis, the the rule number one is don't make it worse. Don't make it worse. And sometimes the very first thing you're inclined to do >> is the wrong thing is what's going to make it worse. >> And so sometimes you do want to try to buy time. Now there is an exception to pause. There is an exception.

Now what is that exception? The exception to pausing is when you've conditioned yourself to make the right thing reflexive. That's when you don't have to pause. like when like and and this is what this is what you see um elite athletes doing in training. They are training such that their reflexes are now conditioned to be the absolute correct thing in the moment to where their coaches talk about I don't want you thinking. Your muscles now are conditioned to respond and do the right thing in the right moment.

Your mind is automatically slowing things down to the point where you can take advantage of the moment. So, for example, some of my conditioned reflexes in the crisis of like if you've really infuriated me, my response is actually if you told me something really provocative, >> guess what I would say to you? I would tell you, tell me more about that. >> Tell me more about that. I think XY blah blah blah blah blah. Tell me more about that because I'm actually now buying time to make sure I heard you right.

See where I'm responding and I am kind of reveling in the fact that I don't have to respond right away. I don't have to respond. I can respond after I've got clarity on what you're saying because when the fightor-flight mechanism is activated, your IQ goes down. So what you'll find in these really volatile arguments, there are so many misunderstandings. >> So many misunderstandings. >> Oh, but I thought you said this. No, I never said that. Oh. Oh, I mean that that changes everything, you know, >> and you know why that happens a lot of times that the the misunderstandings because we're not really listening.

>> We're listening to respond. >> We're listening to respond. We're listening to have a rebuttal and defend ourselves and not we're not listening with empathy. We're not listening with understanding. So when they're like, "I never said that." Well, and and my the conversation I had in my head, you said it, you know, I heard you say that, you know, and that's what happens when we don't um >> Yeah. We don't know how to listen. >> We know how to we know how to protect try to protect ourselves, put a wall up and just defend.

We know how to defend ourselves, but we don't know how to listen. >> Absolutely. And then so Deborah said, "A brother in church told me that Christians should not live by emotions but by faith. Do you agree?" This is my last question. You can you can ask as many questions as we are here to answer Deborah. Um >> correct. Yes. >> A brethren church told me that Christ should not live by that Christians should not live by emotions but by faith. Do you agree? This is my last question. Um, you want to take a first stop, Sister Tante?

>> Um, all right. Let's see. Now, I'm going to read it again because I let you read. >> Oh, I I could I could I don't want to put you on the spot, but I just Yeah, >> it's okay. So, I'm not quite sure where he was coming from, but um you know, love is an emotion, right? So, we absolutely ought to operate out of love, but um of course, we can be I mean, the Bible says I mean, we're talking about church, right? So, we're talking about Christians, so we're talking about the Bible. Um for those of us who believe in the Bible, a lot of you are are here because of you do believe.

But um you know the Bible says to be angry and sin not. So you can have um righteous indignation type of anger and um that so that that's an emotion but you do the right thing and you do the right thing in the right way. Like you can be angry but don't sin. Don't be mean to someone. Don't cuss somebody out, but just let them know that this is what you're gonna do and this is why in a very kind, beautiful way. I put the beautiful because just like we say, you say the beautiful no instead of the ugly yes.

You can have an you can have a an emotion of anger and respond beautifully. How about that, >> man? That was that was gold. That was gold. She's like, "You might not see my picture, but I'm dropping science. I'm I'm I'm coming heavy with it. >> I gotta do something. They can't see me. >> They can feel you, though. They can feel you." Oh my goodness. Um that that was dope. Um I would say, uh, Deborah, that I I really I just I like what um I like what my co-host said. Um I I think that was really strong.

You know, it's interesting. Whenever we get questions like this, I try to go to scripture and say, is there a scriptural precedence to answer that question? So now, as I reflect on the as I reflect on the biblical stories, I see loads of Christian heroes using a lot of emotion. Lots of lots of emotions. um and true sometimes for good and sometimes for bad. But the point is it certainly does not condemn the use of emotions. It's the inappropriate use of emotions. So when was emotion used in a good way?

You guys remember when the account that the the people of Jabesh Gilead were in need of rescuing and and and that story came to Saul after he'd been anointed king and he was flooded with emotion. He was flooded with emotion and he and he chopped up some cattle and he sent it throughout Israel and said, "This is what will happen to anyone's cattle who does not come out with us to help us rescue the people of Jabesh Gilead." And you'll recall when his body was desecrated, it was the men of Jabesh Gilead who went and retrieved his carcass so that it could be buried with some some honor.

Um, that moment was so significant. you of course um when David takes on Goliath, you see emotion mixed with faith, you know, uh it's a really powerful moment because David literally prophesies, I'm going to chop your head off. And David doesn't have a sword. >> So, he must have been foreseeing that I'm going to use your sword to chop your head off. But there was a ton of emotion. So, as I read scripture, I see quite a bit of emotion mixed with faith. I will say the more faith, you know, I I often see the better the outcome.

But I I would be remiss to demonize emotions or the use of emotions. We are emotional creatures. It's just we can't be ruled especially by negative emotions. Shereice now said, "What is righteous indignation versus anger?" What is righteous indignation versus anger? >> Good question. >> You want you want me to go first or >> is it my turn to go first? >> I mean, >> go ahead. I was >> take a stab at it for what I'm understanding it to be is I just look at the example of Jesus. He definitely um he showed more righteous indignation to the Pharisees.

And so like he would um respond to them um and break them down with uh understanding and logic that they could not like it basically just kind of shut them up if you will, but not in a mean way. Do you see what I'm saying? The way he dialogued with them was not a mean way. He just said, well, um, he just broke it down in in such a way that they were enlightened with why he was going and why they were wrong, basically. So, you can help somebody understand that they're incorrect or wrong or what they're doing is not right without belittling them.

Um, and I think that's righteous indignation. I mean, and plus, and then like how what he did when he turned over the tables. I mean I it I I I I was timid to use that example only because >> we don't want oh I can just go I can just a fool like no and that's not >> please don't we are also not your mental health counselors let's talk about whatever you're hearing confer with your mental health team before >> saying don't yeah don't go destroying furniture in your house I have righteous indignation >> well because and and and because now I mean like let's let's define righteous indignation like what is the source of the indignation?

>> What is the source of the fury? Sorry guys, nine out of 10 times when we become indignant, it's because there's been an offense to self. >> A lot of times when we become indignant, it's because our pride has been violated. That's the difference between us and Christ. That's the difference between um like true righteous indignation when when Christ is turning over the tables. He is upset that the sanctuary which was designed to point people to the plan of salvation is being adulterated in so vile a fashion.

Like the clinging of the coins is interrupting the people from even experiencing the somnity during their prayer. >> That's what he's infuriated. The people cannot even commune with God. >> Yeah. at the temple. Like of all places, the one place you should have an audience and a setting where you can effectively communicate with God is not happening. Now, now Jesus is upset. That's the kind of stuff that upsets Jesus. We get upset because somebody cut us off. >> Right. >> We're upset because they gave us the wrong latte.

>> Yeah. That's not righteous indignation by >> that's no that's just that's just indignation. Um so I think that that's just anger >> being rude. >> That's just anger. You know it's just you know I'm I'm I'm upset. But in terms of righteous indignation it's when you really catch anger on behalf of God. And here's the other hypocritical thing about our anger. We get so angry about the sins >> we're not committing. >> Right. Oo, you talking about me? Well, they can see you in that. They You dropped that.

That was I like that. >> We get so angry and indignant about the sins >> we're not committed. >> Mercy. >> We are so impatient with people who don't have our hangup. >> Yes. Yes. >> They have a different hang-up. We get impatient with people who are not moving at our speed of growth and progress. Why can't you get up to my speed? Dude, >> you were an Adventist all your life. >> Like, can you make some allowance for this other person? >> Right. Right. >> And so what if maybe they were schooled in Adventism as well, but guess what?

They're different than you. You don't know what their experience was. that that's not righteous indignation. >> Just you saying that and I know it kind of makes it made me go back and circle back to the Charlie Kirk thing just on this one thing because people are very upset on one side and I mean I think you know on one side they're very upset and on the other side they're upset but maybe not as upset as the other side. But then I'm thinking both sides do when when you said that it just made me think like both all people sin.

So, you know, like, yes, you may not like somebody else's sin. Um, but you shouldn't like your sin either, right? So, we shouldn't like it when, you know, Charlie Kirk, of course, gets assassinated. You shouldn't rejoice or like that. But like, you should also be upset when those who don't agree with you, something happens because the couple, I think they were in Minnesota. It was a husband and wife. They were killed as well. And it it was a political thing that was, I believe, earlier this summer or or that type of thing.

You know what I'm saying? Like, so you you should be upset about Charlie, but you should be upset when that when it happens to other people that maybe don't think like you or not don't you should be upset period when this happens. >> And it's the same thing. I'm just going along with your whole sin thing. We shouldn't let our sin, >> you know, we should not just focus on other people's sin or you don't like that, but you shouldn't like your sin either. I'm just >> Right. Or or we Well, we we have a sympathy for our sin, right, >> but we don't have a sympathy for other people's sin.

>> Yes. Exactly. Um, it's it's this inability to get out of ourselves >> and be present for someone else. Like >> like that that's what we're distinguishing like Christ had an amazing way of getting out of himself. >> Okay. And and and and getting into the experience of others. >> Absolutely. Uh it's it's funny because the pre uh what would often what would often precedes Christ miraculous intervention was a conversation and the conversation was often what do you want? >> Remember when he's talking to the blind man?

He's talking to a blind man and he's still asking what do you want? >> What do you want? I don't assume that I know what you want. What do you want? >> Right? Um, so >> I kind of want to just take a stab at Charlotte's um um statement because I mean it's something I think we should look at. Like Charlotte's uh Stanford said, "It seems when Jesus called the Pharisees um brood vipers, he he sounds very emotional and you know and I and I want us well this is what I think. I I believe like we like let's not think in our sinful minds how we would say that."

You know what I mean? How the like even the body language or the the you know the our tone all of that because we know Jesus was perfect. So okay I got to have that lens on. How did he say brood vipers? Did he say it like you know if I was telling somebody you know the way you're coming at this is not the best like you're you know you know the however he wanted to describe brood vipers to them. Do you understand what I'm saying? We we like to we like to hear it and see it through our sinful lens how we would say it.

>> We would say it in a mean way if we don't have God in Christ in us at that moment. >> Now what's what's interesting about when Christ makes that statement, it's not a random statement. The creator of vipers is saying you remind me of vipers. So, so Christ has an intimate understanding of what vipers are all about, what they're like, how they hunt, how they how they paralyze their their prey, >> And you're telling me the way the Pharisees would threaten you with excommunication from the community?

>> At a moment's notice, remember what they did to the man that he healed and told him, "You're out of the community." Do you understand the the venomous nature of that? That means where are you going to get married? And you've been excavated from the community. Where where would you allow your child now to get the rights it needs to be welcomed into a community? And by the way, what does it mean when you're pushed out of a community and you have to now find your existence somewhere else? It's almost like a death sentence.

It's almost like capital offense because it's not like these well industrial nations where you can be independent and you can be sort of nuclear and still survive. Your reliance on community was everything. It is venomous to kick someone out of the community. And the ease with which they did it, I'm sure, is what Christ was thinking of when he said, "You guys are like vipers and not just one. You you plot, you work together. You are a brood of vipers. And that's being kind >> when I say what you like.

So he's emotional, >> cognitive, spiritual, and still righteously indignant. and he was Jesus. I guess my biggest um thing that I want to encourage everyone and even myself when I read the word is don't see it through I don't want to see it through my thoughts and feelings. I want to see it through God's thoughts and feelings. And that's why we need to invite the Holy Spirit every time we look at those pages. >> So important for you to say that. My bias when I'm looking at scripture is it's loving.

And if it's not, could it be I'm missing something? >> And without fail, when I've looked and searched and thought about it with more deepness where I didn't see love, now there was a lot of love. Some of the some of the places where God looks the harshest, he's actually being the most loving. If you make the investment, you will unearth it. >> Yeah, absolutely. I think I mean I'm stealing my husband's stuff right now, but um the love story, I think the first time I ever heard that, it just blew my mind.

And that's that's old. That's like >> the love story has to be almost 20 years old, that sermon. That's still mind-blowing to me. >> That um Yeah, because we always think like, oh, hell, fire, the destruction. That's like that's God's God getting revenge on the sinner. And it's really an act of love, >> mercy. I can still see the the arms of fire. >> Encircling the the the lost, the wicked. >> Um that's amazing. >> Yeah. No, I' I've been so blessed by his his ministry, man. It's >> it's something else.

>> Yeah. And I think that's where I mean that's where the incorrect doctrine of that hellf fire burns forever and ever can come because we're thinking in our own carnal minds like yeah God's going to burn people forever. Of course they deserve it. They send you know what I'm saying like that >> that it's easy to to go that way. But the Holy Spirit needs to be invited with us every time we take a look at the the scriptures. >> Amen. >> Um I think we have time for one last question. How do you help a child deal Oh, it went away.

>> Sorry. >> How do you Okay. How do you help a child deal with hurt from a par parent in a positive way? So parent hurt a child like wow. Yeah. >> Well, first you get them away from the parent. I'm just I'm just playing. I'm just playing. >> Um you know, as therapists, this is something I know that you have to deal with quite a bit >> all the time. >> Um what what what say you? Well, I don't know this exact situation. Um Um So >> you need would would it be wise if they provided you a greater context without violating privacy?

You know, because we don't want to put any identifiable information, but just help us to contextualize a response >> a little bit better. And I can say without knowing their situation, just want to say this while they could be adding more to that is that I mean I've just found that unfortunately I was talking to somebody else and this was just last week or two weeks ago. It was outside of the therapy room so it wasn't a client but I was just sh they were I think it was over this Charlie Kirk thing where talking about how much evil is in the world and I guess I said yes there is a lot of evil in the world.

I said, but what hap but without most things don't get it as extreme as somebody you love gets assassinated, things like that. However, what does happen a lot of times is unfortunately parents aren't being good parents and not maybe on purpose. They could be not being good parents because of their own un um treated childhood traumas and things that they've gone through. So they're showing up as parents not being the best because they didn't have the best and life has just not been the best to them and they're just working with what they have.

But unfortunately as parents we we not on purpose not on purpose but because of our own not I should say not all the time on purpose but we will bring our own brokenness to the parenting stage and we end up hurting our children. >> Yeah. I mean, I I think it was wise to seek greater context because you get rotten parents >> who are damaging their kids. Like there's a spectrum and you get super innocent parents and you get parents who are kind of doing the best that they can, but they're a little misguided.

Um, and you get, like you just mentioned, Sister Tante, you get parents who are being victimized by their past and they're saying, "Hey, this is how I grew up." And and you know what's funny? Nine out of ten times if a parent was exposed to 10x they're like I'm not gonna be like that and so they are 8x or 5x and still and not realizing dude 5x is still out there. >> I know you think because I I assure you the parents that were abusing them were under the impression that they were doing a little better than what they were exposed to.

>> Yeah. Um but so so this this conversation is on a spectrum and that's why it can't be given a fair response without understanding what really is going on. Is the parent willfully maliciously hurting a child and then what intervention is appropriate for that versus a parent >> um it's not willful malicious and it's not even like actually hurting them per se. And what does hurt mean? Does hurt mean um offending their feelings? Is it verbal? >> Well, they gave a little bit more. >> Is it? Yeah. Oh, where's their Yeah, they gave a little bit more context.

They said verbally abusive, threatening and hitting a child just to see how they will react. Yeah, that's I mean if you're and I again I still don't know the whole we don't know the whole thing because we don't know if this is like the parents are together and and this is happening in your home or it's you're separate you're divorced or whatever and and you share the child and you he has to go there and you're not you know what I'm saying? I still don't know the whole thing, but um you know if if they are being verbally abusive and I guess they're threat threatening to hit the child just to see how they will react.

>> Um that's abusive. I mean, just to hit a child and they're depending on what state you are, like I are in um I know in California they physical um punishment um is can be very shunned by the courts, but that's a whole another thing. Don't know where you are. I know. It depends on what state you are, but um if a child is in danger, then you definitely have um resources um in your in your county, in your in your state. So, you just uh need to see if you have to go if you are sharing a child and you're going to have to go back to court and let them know this is, you know, what you've been experiencing or your child has witnessed and all of those type of things.

And you need to take it to that level. if you can't um legally keep them away from a parent that's being abusive to them. But again, not knowing all the ins and outs if it's if if that's a situation where you can do that. Um if you're living in the home with them, um that's even probably a little bit more challenging. >> Yeah. I mean, there's hotlines, whether >> you know, whether it's 911 or it's 988 or it's calling the county office to try to figure out what are the pertinent resources in your area or it's connecting with mental health.

Um, there's just a range of appropriate, you know, responses that it will all depend on what's the specific thing that you're dealing with. So, >> and the original question was how do you help uh your child deal with the hurt from so letting them know that you're especially if you're still with the parent, you know, letting them know that you realize that what's happening to them is wrong and trying to get them actual help. So, I think professional help to see a a mental health professional and that mental health professional would know more resources in your area, what to do if you're in a situation where the county or the authorities could get involved to assist you or help you.

Um, >> So, they would know more. But definitely you a lot of times um I shouldn't say a lot of times but there are times when one parent knows that the child is being abused but they don't do anything about it. So even though that parent is not the abuser or the abuser the child's going to they end up holding uh res you know getting feelings of resentment towards that parent um as well. So that's why I was saying definitely let them know that you're here for them and you are going to do everything in your power to make sure that they don't have to continue to experience that.

>> Let's have a let's have a word of prayer for Shen. >> Um our father and our God. Dear Lord, you can see um we obviously don't know the details of this situation, but Lord, you do. Um we thank you for your intervention and what it is that you are planning. And we pray in a special way, oh God, that um you would intervene quickly, that you would bring healing, that you would bring um solace, and that you would bring a testimony of uh that would show how awesome and powerful you are. And we pray this in your holy name.

Amen. >> Amen. Amen. Well, I want to thank you for that question. Thank you guys for all of your questions tonight. Thank you, Dr. White. Uh, your cra your camera cleared up beautifully, so you were good. At least they could hear me. Thank you, Amra, for being behind the scenes. Thank you all of all to all of you for coming and showing up for this season 4. Want you to know that we will not be here next week on the 22nd, but we will be here live on the 29th. So, don't miss it. put it on your calendar, but also sign up to get text alerts because you'll be reminded 20 minutes before we go live.

But we thank you for being here and please share share this uh share this program on your social media. I'm sure some of the answers by God's grace that we uh answered will be able to bless others as well. So, >> Sister Tante, I love how you modeled resilience. One way or another, you gonna figure it out. >> Yeah, we're gonna figure this out. We're going to go live. We are here. So, always a blessing to be here with all of you and you, Dr. White. And uh we will see you guys in two weeks. Have a good >> God bless everyone.

Byebye. >> All right. Bye-bye.