and dry driving. I'm familiar with Cleveland, but yeah, I'm not sure exactly where that is. My uncle lives in Cleveland, Tennessee, and we'll be there for this year. It's in our family reunion. [Music] Are you Heat. Heat. Heat. Welcome living mana church family. So happy for you to be here with us on this Sabbath. So happy that you have decided to worship with us here at Living Mana Online Church. We're always excited to see all of you, each and every one of you. So please put in the chat where you're viewing from.

And if this is your first time with us, please put a one in the chat so we can tell you a little bit more about our church. But we just want to say a special welcome to all of you from all around the world. So just please put in the chat. That's right. We are looking forward to a blessed uh fellowship with you today. Um we have uh a lot to talk about for our Sabbath school. We got a couple announcements. We have a couple of special guests just for a few um uh moments and then we we're going to get get into a uh pretty uh sensitive Bible school topic today.

Yes. And um which I guess exciting. I want to say welcome to T. It says T. Tia maybe. I don't know. T A I don't know. T but she's a one and Tia or T tell me where tell us where you are viewing from. This is your first time with us. So we want to say a very very special welcome to you. Thank you for uh worshiping with us today. I just want you to know that this is a 100% online church. We have lots of programming all throughout the week. We have mental health Mondays and that we're talk and that I host I co-host that with Dr.

White. I'm a licensed marriage and family therapist. He's a psychiatrist and so we talk about all things mental health. And then we have True Health Tuesdays. We have a licensed nutritionist and two doctors, a naturopathic doctor and a MD. they host and they talk about uh lifestyle, physical lifestyle things that we can do to live a healthier, better life. We have prayer all the time, but we have two prayer services uh on Wednesdays. We have power Wednesday um that's on altar live. We have the power line that's on YouTube and it's live and we pray for your request right live right in real time.

Um and then um we and we have a prayer team that's always taking in your request as well and you'll get more information about that during the divine worship hour. Then we have um Thursday with our young adult pastor Lil Ammy Richardson. Um and then of course we're here on Sabbath. So you will have you have your your choice of of joining us on any during any of these programs. You'll find out information during the divine worship service um on how to sign up to get text alert and other uh ways so that you can um just be alerted and reminded of when we're going live.

So again, welcome. We are happy to have you here at Living Mana Church. And if we have any other ones, hopefully that uh told you what you need to know about Living Mana Church. All right, you are in worshiping from Seal, Alabama. Where is Seal? We're in Huntsville, I think. is still in in like the south like deep deep south because we're in the north like we're at the very top of the state almost into Tennessee. So I think you must be way way down. I've heard of it. I just don't know where it's located.

But welcome. It's very we're very happy to have you here with us today. We have Lynette from Mexico. Welcome. Happy Sabbath to you. We have Who did I miss? Okay. Um I miss Okay. Trinidad. We have Brian from Trinidad in Tobago. Welcome to Living Mana Church. Great to see you here. We have Brother Tennessee. Guess where he's from, guys. He's from Tennessee. Good to always see you, Brother Tennessee. Good to have you here. Um yeah. All right. We have Oh, 30 minutes from Columbus, Georgia. I got it.

Seal, Alabama. That's great. T I know. I know in the direction of where you and where you are. It's so great to have you to have you here. Um and the mayor family from Dylan, South Carolina. Good to see you. Barbara from Anguela, always great to see you here. Welcome. Happy Sabbath. And we have uh Leela from North Carolina. Leela and Wes from North Carolina. Good to see you here. All right. We have from Canada. Great. Welcome. All right. It's good to see everybody. Always good to see all of you here on this Sabbath morning.

We want to just quickly do an announcement. Um Marvin from Texas, good to see you here. Welcome. Just a quick announcement with like what we mentioned last week about the convocation. The convocation as we knew it has been cancelled, but there is another there's another um program that we are planning where we can all still get together and fellowship, but also be doing service in the community where we are fellowshipping. So, we're going to do we're going to do community service together and we're going to fellowship together.

That's the best way to fellowship. So, do we have all of the details? Not yet. Uh we you know we when we're going to be giving you that as it comes together. Um and so just be on the lookout for that. Be on the lookout for that because I know so many of you want to get together and we want to get together uh with you. Um, but God has had us pivot to a um a gathering, a different type of gathering, but still it's going to be a lot of fun. And we're going to be doing God's work and we are going to be uh breaking um or breaking bread together, hearing his word as well.

So, it's going to be quite the great fellowship. It'll be the type of fellowship God wants us to have and doing work and fellowshipping together and getting to know each other better. and how how what better way to get to know each other but doing uh service for others for God together and then um also just spending time together. So we're excited about that. But just all just a reminder that the convocation um that was being planned um is is cancelled but uh we are planning another another event.

So just just be looking out for new and more information about that as we are moving forward. Yeah. So okay. Well, thank you. Well, I know some of you are still putting in the chat where you're viewing from, but welcome once again to Living Mana Church. You want to do a t-shirt? Uh, pray, wait, trust God has a plan. Yes. Um, well, you know, I have so many shirts that I was just pulling through and this one really spoke to me uh today. And I have another shirt that says God God is still writing your story.

Like stop taking the pen from him basically like let him continue to write the story. So, this one kind of goes with that one. like you're praying, you're trusting, God has a plan. Even when um you think you know what needs to happen, like don't be in the driver's seat. Like get in the passenger seat and allow God to work out the situation in his in his way. And just I was thinking about it like just reading this t-shirt. I was I was thinking about it like you know how you either some may watch a movie or a program or something and you don't know exactly how it's going to end but you're like sitting back and you're not in control of it like because you don't know how it's going to end and you're being you know you're just like not knowing.

That's how we need to do in life. It's just like sit back. Sit back, relax, breathe, trust in God, and just you're like watch the movie. Yeah, watch the movie and watch the movie of your life and just and watch God work. Your anxiety is not going to change the movie. Your worry, which is same thing, fear, which is all three the same thing, is not going to change the movie. So stop wasting your energy and just have peace and sit back and relax. So trust God, he has a plan. Yeah. And your anxiety can actually change the movie.

Let's stay. No, no, no, no. Tell me. I mean, it can change the movie by you worrying worrying yourself out of God's Right. Well, it changes the movie in the sense that You're not you're not going to have peace. Like anxiety, worry, fear, and peace control of the movie, right? Do not share a space. You're right. Anxiety and worry and fear can cause you to mess up the script to try to jump into the driver's seat and that messes it up and you don't want to do that. That's a good point. Thank you. So, because I wasn't quite sure what you were going to say, but um yeah, you don't want to mess it up.

And that's what I tell my children. Like I was just I was telling our son that the other a couple weeks ago that you just you want to be in the space that God wants you to be in. So just sit back and whatever doors open that's God's will. Whatever closes it's not God's will and you're you're happy in that space. You're not happy in the space that you create without God. You're not happy. Yeah. Yep. Um, so are we ready to bring Yes. our guest our guest on? I was paying attention to the chat. Sorry.

Yeah. Yes. So, speaking of uh fellowship, um we have something that we want to introduce to our church family. Yes. This is not just for our church family. It's for our viewing, you know, viewing audience. But uh we're going to invite our guests on and they are Sister Nicole and Sister Takara. Um please you guys come on and let's talk about our new Hangouts ministry. Yes. Welcome. Welcome ladies. So good to see you. Hi. Happy Sabbath. Happy Sabbath. Happy Sabbath to you too. and Nicole. Nicole, we cannot hear you.

So, I don't know if your mic is muted, but um I I heard one of them in my Yeah. Yeah, I hear Takara, but not not Nicole. Nicole, I'm testing. Nicole's testing. I can hear you now. Okay. Yeah, we hear you. Takara, can you speak? Takara, can you hear us? Yeah, it's Takara. We can't hear. We can hear Nicole. We can't hear you. Takara, but we can hear Nicole. So, I don't know if you're muted, if your mic is on mute, Takara. Yeah. No, we can't we can't hear you. I thought I heard you a little bit earlier, but Okay.

Well, maybe um our tech team, they can work on that. And Nicole, uh you're gonna have to lead with it. So, you introduce what's this new what's this new ministry uh that's Hangouts and I know to uh Takara is um I think she's the the the lead hangout person, but the lead hangouter the lead hangout person. So, okay. But Nicole, while we're working on Takara's um being able to hear her, please let please tell please tell our audience more about this new ministry that Living Man Church is doing. Absolutely.

Well, Pastor Meyers, it kind of came from your vision. So, um we are just following um kind of how you laid it out, but yeah, it's just another opportunity for us to connect together as a living family. So, I don't know if you want to give a little bit of an overview of what you were thinking. Yep, I can do that. Uh so, um basically what we want to do is we just want to provide a platform. Yeah, we can hear you. We just want to provide to to we cannot hear you still. Yeah. Okay. Um so anyway, we want to provide a platform um a space for our members to connect and interact with each other.

This is not Bible study. Um this is literally as we are uh calling it. These are hangouts. And so really they're kind of like ice breakers. um different type of fun activities for our members to get to know one another. Why? Because we're a virtual church, right? Um and you know, we don't get to meet each other like we don't get to fellowship in person. Um so this is Okay, Takor, they're saying uh that you do have sound now. So you want to say something? Can you just say hello? I don't know. I hear you.

Okay, we can. Can you all hear me? Yes, we can. Praise the Lord. Yeah. Okay, you can. So, um, again, so what we're doing is we're just forming small groups, not based on Bible study, not based on, you know, you got to come up with some, you know, deep theological discussion. We're just, it's just hanging out. That's literally all it is. It's very low um low pressure, low just getting to know people maintenance. It's just getting to know people. So, uh if you guys want to jump in and kind of share some of the some of the parameters, some of the you know, just a little bit of detail when we plan to start things like that.

Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, absolutely. Like like you said, yeah, like you said, pastors just there's so many ways for us to connect already with Living Mana, but this is just going to be another extension of that. So, we are so excited to get things kicked off. Just to like you said, I'm Nicole Dakar is going to be our lead hangout host and we are two of the five Hangout support members. So, I just want to also give uh acknowledge Jennifer who has done our graphics, brothers uh Thomas and Spamco who are also on the support team.

So, just want to say hello to them and thank you for all your efforts. But yeah, we are super excited to launch the hangouts ministry and the first part of the ministry is going to be those those small groupoup sessions where like you said there's zero pressure. We're getting to know each other. Um we came up with the tagline of you know we worship together so let's hang out together. And so that's really what it's all about. I love it. Yeah. Yeah. We don't want our connection to end at the live stream.

So that's right. We are, like you said, we're going to focus on guided conversations, ice breakers, just fostering a space for connection and growth. So, we we want to get to know each other. We want to serve each other. And part of that is just connecting. So, we want be able to invite people into our living room space. So, we're going to focus on connecting, community, and conversation. And so we're going to have more information about the details once we recruit our hangout hosts, but we're thinking right now it'll be bi-weekly.

Um, and it'll be a one-hour again zero pressure type of small group session and we'll have icebreaker games. Um, but right now before we launch, we're hoping to have our first hangout session churchwide at the end of August, possibly beginning of September. Um, but right now we're in the recruitment phase. So, we people that actually want to lead these small group sessions and we're calling them our hangout hosts. And so, I'll let Takara speak a little bit more about what is a hangout host, what's expected, what's not expected.

And I'm gonna let Takar do her thing now. Yeah. I was going to say before she speaks, I just want you guys to know because I don't know if you can see the chat, but there's so much excitement in the chat. Like people are like, I've been waiting for this. I'm excited about this. I'm uh Some people are saying I'm an extrovert. So, this is right up my alley. I need to meet more people. But it's for the introverts, too. Don't be afraid introverts. You don't have to like somebody said, baby steps for the introverts.

So, still come. You don't you know when you get when you're feeling warmed up, you can take your mic off and show your face. But go ahead, Takara. Go ahead. Takara is going to ask what kind of uh what kind of degree or background do we need for these uh leaders? Like we you know what how how skilled um do we need to be? What kind of background? This is not just for anybody. You're learning his sense of humor right now. Okay. My sense of humor. No, we don't need I know I know Pastor Myers no degree and I'm so glad that just her sister Tante is saying that um the excitement in the chat because that's what we're looking for.

We're looking for people to show themselves friendly um to be able to come and you know let your hair down um and a welcoming environment. This is nothing about, you know, this isn't Bible study. This isn't, you don't have to have a degree. We want friendly people, welcoming people, warm people who want to just conversate. Um, as sister, um, Nicole said earlier, um, this is community. This is fellowship. We worship together. Now, let's hang out together. So this is, you know, if you were if we were around each other, if we were together, um, in the same community, we would invite I would invite you to come over and hang out.

Takara, we're losing you. We see you talking, but we're not we're not hearing you. And we want to hear you so bad. So, let's let Nicole pick up and then hopefully Takara can can come back. So, uh she's Oh, you can see why she's she's the lead home. Yeah, I know. I know. I know. Yeah, you all can see why she's the lead. Yeah, I know her passion. So, she's perfect for that position. But go but yeah, go ahead, Nicole. Well, like she was saying, no degree needed, just a willing spirit. And think the hangout host can think of themselves as just inviting people into their living room.

You're not giving a sermon, you're not giving, you know, dissertation. You're you're facilitating conversations and know that we'll have support. So, we have a uh the Hangout support team. We are just kind of putting the plumbing in for this ministry. Our hangout hosts are really going to be the heart and soul of the ministry. And so if you're looking for opportunities to, you know, learn how to communicate better or just again foster fellowship, this is for you. Also, the introverts like myself who are, it takes us a while to warm up, you are welcome also to be a part of the team.

You can help us behind the scenes even with supporting the Zoom sessions and maybe, you know, you can step up and co-host with an established host and then maybe eventually grow into being a hangout host. So there's a space for everyone. So we're excited about it. Yeah. So we are looking for those who are interested. Yeah, I'm excited about it too. And look, let me tell you, the extroverts are being represented here by me and the introverts, you have strong representation by your pastor. So trust me, you you're okay.

You're okay. I was going to to car. Some people are saying maybe you should uh try to go out and come back in. And I don't know if that will that will make any change, but don't even worry about it because we're actually about to to to uh to close this session, but I do want to say that this is for everybody, right? Um we want everybody to be involved in the hangout, we are looking for people that will uh facilitate. And for those that are willing to do that, listen, you will not be responsible for you don't have to come up with with material.

You don't have to do any of that. We're going to have a list of ice breakers and a list of different activities that can be done. You would just kind of serve as the host for this particular small group. And we're not looking for more than like in each group, you know, could be anywhere from, you know, five to eight people. 10 or less. Yeah. Definitely 10 or less. I like that. Okay. I like that. So, it's not one big It's not one big. It's 10 or less. It's a whole bunch of individual. I like that.

It's going to be individuals. So, and the hangout hosts, um, you all will have your own community and you can share ideas and support one another. So, you're going to create community within community as well. So, we're all here to support because we really just want everyone to enjoy each other, you know? I know what it means. More intimate. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Good. We can hear you, too. Y can hear me. Yes. And you might if you want to because that whole time that you were talking and we saw your hands moving and you might want to re say that because we couldn't hear any of it.

We want to hear what you were saying. So what I'm saying can you guys hear? Yes, we can hear you. Okay. Okay. Go ahead. Go ahead. For some reason I'm having to switch my mic out. I know it's what it is. But anyways, as I was saying when I'm moving my hands because I talk with my hands. It's like right now I'm in the living room area and so I got a t-shirt on. I got some leggings on and this is just chill. We don't want anyone to feel any kind of pressure. Um especially our hangout host. I'm a hangout host.

I'm naturally social people in my just my friends kind of like that are, you know, not in the church really. When I'm hanging out, I'm kind of like that goofy girl. So I we want people to be welcoming and um the hangout host is warm. They're friendly. Um we you know you're smiling um and just you know bringing a community together making it intimate and just people feeling just warm and comfortable. It's a it's a cozy community to come to. We want people to feel a connection and to be able to um share whatever is going on in their heart, whatever they want to share.

Um again I was saying this is not Bible study. I'm not preaching. Nobody's, you know, we're we're ministering in a different way. This is, it still can be a ministry, but we're ministering in a way of um community and connection. And that's what Hangouts is. Come and hang out in our living rooms. That's where that's where we're at. Just come and hang out in our living rooms. Yeah. I I love it. And people are asking, is it for members only? And no, it's not. It's for the whole viewing um audience can can part.

No, this is not for members only. This is and this is not just for Seventh Day Adventist either, right? Of course, your mic wants to This is for everyone to come to be able to come in and hang out. Yep. Yep. That is great. Can we put Okay, that I can tell you that again. There's a lot of excitement. There's a lot of excitement. We heard you, Takara. They heard you. The the the the the important information. They heard you from both of you. But the last very important information, and I know I saw Gigi put the email, can we put that back in the chat, um the email where if they're interested in in helping.

Yeah. And to be one of the hosts, um they can they can email that email. The email that it's about to go up. We also we have a we have a space set up. Oh, go ahead, pastor. No, I was just going to say it'll be different times for different groups. So, it's not like all you know, it's on this day. every group will get to kind of kind of choose their day, choose the time that best suits them as a group. It's not based on location. So, um you know, it's Yeah, it'll be very flexible. Yeah. So, okay, if you guys see in the chat, yeah, we are still getting those details and as it expands and as we grow, we can get an Yeah.

as it expands and grows, we can get an idea and suggestions from people coming on from other hangout hosts of what days and times would be good for them when they're not busy. So, we want to be able to work with everyone's schedule so they can come and hang out. Yep. This sounds amazing. Absolutely. So, we actually have a mighty network space set up already. So, if you are interested and you're like, "This is definitely what I want to do," or you want more information and you're still unsure, we want you to go to the Hangout Space and Mighty Networks and there's a section that says Hangouts 101.

Just go ahead and fill out the interest form there. That'll help us collect your email, get information so we can stay in touch. And we're going to have our first information meeting on June, Sunday, June 29th at 700 PM Central time. So just visit the hangout space or also email hangouts.urch if you have any questions in the meantime. So yeah, absolutely love that. Um guys, I love the I love their leadership. I love you guys are you guys are doing an amazing job. So you can go to Mighty Networks.

There's also an email um and it was it's in the chat everyone, but if you see it there, it is hangoutsmana.urch. So they can also get in contact with you there at hangoutsmanana.urch. Okay. Okay. Takara. Okay. And but Mighty Networks is a great place. I told you that's our virtual church home. So if you you're going to get information how to join Mighty Networks if you have not already joined in the divine worship service, but you're going to want to join because this is the type of space where you're going to get all the type all the information that you need um outside of getting text alerts.

So that is great. Send an email if you're inet. Go ahead. I'm in mighty networks. Anyone has questions or about, you know, more information about a hangout host because that's what we're recruiting for right now. We're needing Hangouts as myself. So you'll be joining me and uh if you have questions, I'm in Mighty Networks. I'm also on WhatsApp. So anyone can reach out to me um through Mighty Networks um through the chat. Um, and you can also go into the hangouts that's also on Mighty Networks and reach out to me there as well.

Yeah, love the ministry, guys. Love the Love it. This is going to be And there there's so much excitement and Yeah, this is great. This is absolutely great. Yeah. And I think we will we will we will be including people that do not speak uh English. So, we'll you know, we're trying to facilitate as many people as we can. So, all those details. We're gonna like a Spanish speaking hangout of course. Yeah, French. That would be awesome. Yeah, one of our support members is in Serbia, so he's our international liaison.

So, we're definitely going to take it international. That's right. This is great. This is great. Thank you guys so much for coming on. We just want Why don't we just pray over it so that God will lead all the the the right host and and and groups leaders all together. Yeah. All right, let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for this ministry. Thank you for um just reminding us, Lord, of the need uh to to fellowship, to to get to know each other, Lord. We pray that this ministry will just um take off, Lord, and be a powerful um way to connect, Lord, not only with our own members, but even those who maybe not may not be familiar with our faith.

Lord, please bless this ministry, bless its leaders, Lord, and uh may do a wonderful work around this globe is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you guys. Thank you again. Thank you. Yes. All right. Janette saying she's bilingual and Yeah. Got people excited. They're already they're you guys are I love to see the excitement from others. You know, it wouldn't be Sabbath if you didn't hear thunder. Not in North North Alabama. Huntsville. Nope. Tell me it's Sabbath without telling me it's Sabbath to say there's thunder outside.

I'm like, "Oh, it's Sabbath." Anyways, seems like we're all always having storms, but God protected us last week. He's going to protect us this week, too. Yeah. So, praise praise God. All right. Sabbath school topic. Yeah. So, there's a lot going on. There's a lot going on, guys. A lot going on around the world. And one of our members um actually it was uh GI that text me this morning right and was like pastor pray for me there's a there's a city down lock down three mile radius lockdown for a guy who is walking around with a gun dressed as a police officer.

If any of you have seen the news today, um two senators, two state senators, yeah, were killed. Um or shot and killed and the husband and the senator two senators were shot and killed and then one of their one of them their spouse was killed as well. Okay. That's what the article I just I I thought it was the what the senator and her husband were killed. Then another state senator and her husband were shot, but they went into surgery and they're still alive. Yeah. So, four people shot altogether.

Two of them deceased. Um and uh it is uh they believe it's politically motivated, but GG is safe, by the way. Twice this morning. She was right in the area. It was her hotel um the place she was staying apartment complex that the the uh this gunman was kind of hiding out I think in a golf course behind the hotel is what I think I heard her say. So he was hiding out in that area. So there's helicopters all over and so uh she's she's safe. She's okay. um we've been in contact with her, but again, we're just living in some really crazy really times.

Yeah, really crazy times. We need to pray for the family of the state senator and her husband that were that are deceased now. Pray for them. Pray for the family of the ones that got shot. Pray for the whole community. This is very traumatizing. Yeah. And it and they believe that it was over a political issue. Yep. So over immigration. over immigration and healthare and healthcare. So, um yeah, I don't if you I I uh can't remember the names off the top of my head now of which senators. Yeah, but if Yeah, you can.

Yeah, but it'll be it'll it'll be in the news. No, it is in the news. It is in the news right now as we're speaking. It's in the news. We uh they're wars and these I just want to not not um go you know government US governor government government senators but state senators. So senators um from Minnesota because people were asking what senators. So you probably are not familiar with their names but they are state Minnesota. Yeah. Senators in Minnesota. So um they uh yeah wars, rumors of wars, protests, political parades.

there we are. My daughter called me yesterday. Our daughter called just thinking she was like is the world about to the youngest daughter. She's like is the world about to end? Is this it that? And um you know I think the question is is on a lot of people's minds and there's a lot we could talk about but we're actually going to focus in on one particular thing today. Um and it's huge is you know these protests in Los Angeles over immigration. So we want to we wanted to deal with this sensitive topic of immigration from a biblical perspective.

Right? What does the Bible say? What does the Bible say about this subject? So, we're gonna pray and we're going to jump into this and I'm I'm'll be sharing some slides on the screen, okay? And we're just going to walk through this, right? Um, and we're going to try to make our decisions based on the word of God. Uh, you know, how should we respond? How should we view this? Um, and again, I know it is a very sensitive subject. I know that we're treading on uh sensitive ground here, but I think it is a subject that we as a church should be, you know, we should we should understand it and we should definitely be seeking to to see what the Lord says about this subject.

So, um let's pray again. Okay. you you could lead us out in prayer and then we're gonna jump in and um hit the share button because we're going to be talking about this and it's Yeah, it's on everybody's mind. Yeah, it's on everybody's mind. Okay. Heavenly Father, Lord, we we thank you again uh for the Sabbath. Lord, we just want to lift up the um those who have that were murdered uh today, the state senator and her husband and the other uh state senator and their spouse, Lord, that were shot. Lord, we we pray that um they that you will help them to continue to heal and pull through this, Lord, and be with their families, give them peace um through this difficult time.

And Lord, we just pray that you will be with us, the Holy Spirit would be with us as we discuss this topic um of immigration and what you what um your word has to say, the principles that are in your word, Lord. So, I um just lift this up to you in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. So, this I'm going to say this up front like this study um is strictly about what the Bible says and what we see happening in America uh not only today but also in the past. Um should Christians base their decisions? Some people are putting their information in the chat as who the senator was.

So, yeah, you you'll see there in the chat. Should we base and I believe as Christians we ought to base everything that we believe on the word of God. No question. Right. So, um let's go to the screen and we're going to be looking at Bible teachings on immigration and United States immigration history. That's what we're going to be looking at. Those two things. Um and I want to say this. I want to say this that you know some people being like okay why are you talking about this is Sabbath school this impacts first of all we want to you know there's people that have a lot of anxiety right now and are going through a lot um and you know I'll just be honest we have a lot of legal obviously immigrants within the 7th day Adventist church obviously but and um our Spanishspeaking churches is there are this affects it definitely affects them.

There's a lot of people there's a lot of people here that are seventh day adventists here that are either might be starting their papers or you know in the process of that or whatever but this is a huge thing um for your brothers and sisters. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, all right. So, the first thing we want to do is what does the Bible say about this subject of the foreigner of the migrant? So, let's go to the screen. Let's go to the screen. And again, we're dealing with Bible teachings on immigration and US immigration policy, right?

Um, so we're going to just we're just going to take these verses one by one and and just comment on them. So in Leviticus 19 33 and 34 uh the Bible says, "And if a stranger sjourn with thee in your land, you shall not vex him, but the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be unto you as one born among you. You shall love him as yourself. For you were strangers in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God." So, let's break that down for for a moment. Um, and notice how the text ends. The text ends, "I am the Lord your God."

Almost like the reason why you ought to do this is closely connected with the fact that I am the Lord your God. So, and I want to just see the comments in the chat. How do you um what does this verse mean to you? yeah, what does this church I mean what does this church what does this verse mean to you now before you you look at this verse in the context of uh well today is different. Let's just talk about for a second what it means. What does Leviticus 19 verse 33 and 34 mean? How does God expect the the Christian how did God expect ancient Israel to treat the stranger?

Another question we would have is did ancient Israel have um immigration laws in the sense of who gets to come in and who doesn't? So what do you think? Did ancient Israel have immigration laws? Let's go ahead and put that in the chat. What do you think? Um, what was God's What was God's position to the immigrant? Leviticus 19:33 tells us, "If a stranger sjourn with you in your land, you shall not vex him." So God's command for Israel was to treat the stranger and vex meaning you can't anger anger.

Okay. You can't be angry not be angry with him but anger him like make him ups make the stranger upset by treating them unfairly or hurting them or Okay. Right. All right. Okay. So everybody go ahead and put a one in the chat if if you can agree at least in Leviticus 19:33-34 that the Christian disposition to a foreigner in your country should be one of hospitality and I think I already know all the yeah but yeah but and what about what about what about but and hold on we're going to get to those right But according to the Bible thus far, Leviticus 19:33 and 34, we do see that uh yeah, I thought I was missing comments here.

Um, okay. And and man, I see a lot of uh a lot of different thoughts and opinions on what this means. Um, man, I'm so sorry I missed these comments. Um, we're not missing as Yeah. Yeah. No, I just I I wish I would be comment on them, commenting on them in real time because now there's so many. But again, um, so, so the question then is, was there any biblical limitations on what a sjourer was? So for example, is a sjourer one who comes into your country and plans to stay or were they given a time limit in which they could stay?

So let's put a one in the chat. One in the chat if you think like a visa that in Israel they had a certain time limit that they could stay and then they had to leave. Or uh were there no such laws in Israel? Two if there were no such laws. one if the stranger had to leave after a certain time. And I think what you're going to see in this study as we go through this study is that there is a difference in a biblical way to do things and a difference to to a secular way to do things. Mhm. There was no law in Israel, none whatsoever, that limited the time that a sjourer could stay in Israel.

So remember, God is the ideal, right? And the way that he separated separated Israel uh in the days of their theocracy, this was this is God saying, "Here is how I want you to act to to be character-wise." Mhm. Okay, let's uh let's go to the next slide. Exodus 22:21. Uh Exodus 22:21 says, "Thou shalt neither vex a stranger nor oppress him, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt." So again, let's let's come back again again. Um, a the Bible says, "Do not vex or oppress a stranger." Are y'all with me so far?

Do not vex or oppress a stranger. That means according to the Bible that as long as a stranger is in your land, Israel, do not oppress that stranger. Do not treat the stranger different than you would treat one of your own. okay. So, do not treat a stranger different than you would treat your own. So again, we see here the biblical mandate for treating a stranger is to love the stranger as yourself, to not oppress or vex or treat in any way different a stranger than you would someone else. All right, let's go to Deuteronomy 10:18 and 19.

uh where the Bible says he doth execute judgment on the fatherless and the widow and loveth a stranger in giving him reignment food and reignment love ye therefore the stranger actually that's Deuteronomy 10 love ye therefore the stranger for you were strangers in the land of Egypt so again now we are now told here to love the stranger now let me ask you a question um are we called. Let's let's come back for a moment and here's what I think we need to to understand here. Love the stranger does not correlate with love the sinner.

So in other words, yeah, love the stranger but hate the strange. Right? Like okay, I love the stranger but I hate the strange. That would be our parallel of saying we love the sinner. We love the sinner but we hate the sin. Remember, being a stranger was not a sin in the Bible. So, y'all put a one in the chat if you understand that being a stranger is nowhere defined in the Bible as a sin. Like, one of the sins of the Bible is not thou shalt not be a stranger. All right. So, so again, put that one in the chat if you understand that biblically speaking, being a in a strange land was never considered a sin.

Put a one in the chat if you understand that being a stranger, being a foreigner in a strange land was never a sin. Now, if you were common sense, not a sin. If you were a forced stranger in a land, then that was a sin because now you're being taken somewhere against your will, right? That's a sin. But for someone to meander into Israel, to say, "Man, I've heard such good things about Israel. Israel is I heard it's the promised land. I heard it's the land of milk and honey. I want to go." No one, no individual was ever barred from going into Israel.

All right, good. I'm glad I'm seeing a bunch of ones in the chat. And listen, again, I know this is a very sensitive subject, especially in times we're living in now. And and I'm not, you know, I I I'm simply just following what the Bible says in this in this thing, right? Let's just lay out what the Bible says. Let's compare it to what we're doing today and let's see does doing something today make it right just because we're doing it right. So now this is not a question of because the man said it was right.

This is not a question of Republican party versus Democratic party. This is a question of America. Mhm. This is a question of do the laws that we have now reflect Christian values when it comes to this particular subject. Okay. So the question is and I like Lisa's question because I think it's a very important one. Yes. Don't immigrants have to follow the law, right? Immigrants and citizens need to follow the law. Mhm. Everybody needs to follow the law, right? We don't want a a a country of law breakers, right?

So, in a sense to separate like, okay, if an immigrant kills you versus a citizen killing you, what is the difference? There's no difference. There is literally no difference in an immigrant killing you versus a citizen killing you. The sin was not, oh, an immigrant did it versus a citizen did it. The sin was the person killed you. Right? The argument that people will that use that will say is, "Well, the illegal immigrant." So, we're not even we're not even going there yet. We're we're going to get there.

I asked the question. You said, "What's the difference?" They'll say, "They should have been here." That's So, I'm kind of building this process, right? I'm kind of building this process because we're go we're going to look at the statements of Romans chapter 13, you know, uh um let every soul be subject, right, to to the higher powers, speaking of the government. We're going to deal with all that, but but we need to not put the cart before the horse, but actually deal in a stepbystep process to see what does the Bible actually actually say.

about this subject. So number one, we see that uh God says love the stranger. God says don't oppress the stranger. So in a Christian setting, it is a sin. It is a sin to oppress the stranger, to treat the stranger differently. Period. End of story. Bottom line. Now if someone in our country kills the first question we ask is not are you from America or no right it doesn't matter who you are you are you should be punished right because you have broken a law so this is why the Bible says in fact let me see if it's on my next slide Yeah, let's go here.

Let's go back to the screen. Notice this. I just want to um let me read this first. Well, I just want to remind everyone to um just know that not only because you're in church, but just because you're children of God, that we want to be always respectful even when we disagree. Right. Okay. And hopefully nobody's being disrespectful in the chat. I don't see it. And maybe you're not reading everything. Go ahead. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. So, um, notice this. One law, Numbers 15:15 and 16. One ordinance shall be both for you and that of the congregation, and also for the stranger that with you.

One law and one manner shall be for you and for the stranger that that sjouneth with you. So according to the Bible, you were not to have different laws for the citizen than you did for the immigrant. Right? One law for everybody. You kill, you get punished. You kill, you get punished. You steal, whether you're a citizen or a foreigner, you steal, there's punishment. You lie, there's punishment, etc. So that makes sense, right? Everyone put a one in the chat if that makes sense. So that we should understand there should be no difference.

Remember now, this is God's planet. Yes, this is not our planet. We didn't make this planet. No, this is God's planet. And God put people on this planet. So when we're looking at this immigration question, we need to be looking at it from the pers as a Christian, we need to be looking at it from the perspective of God, not from the perspective of man. Right? This is God's planet. So now we got to ask a question. Well, did God set up uh uh boundaries in which he says do not cross these boundaries?

Because if God does that, then guess what? It then becomes a sin to move from one country to another. See what I'm saying? If God is like, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, I set up boundaries." Then it would be a sin for someone who was not an Israelite to enter into Israel. Does that make sense? Put a one in the chat if this makes sense. Now, please don't hesitate to put a one in the chat because of your end conclusion, right? We're not getting to the end conclusion yet. We're simply trying to say, "Yeah, I can agree with that.

Yeah, I can agree with that. This is God's planet. We can agree with that." In God's eyes, it is not a sin for a Chinese person, say, to move to Africa. Right. Right. It wouldn't be a sin for two Chinese people to say we want to live in Africa or 20 or 20,000. We cannot look at the Bible and say hold on now that's a sin. Now under a certain circumstance, yes, there comes a there there is a line in which a country ought to be concerned, but we're not going there yet. We're just talking about individuals.

Is it a sin for an individual to cross boundaries according to the Bible? No. No. One law shall be both for the citizen and for the stranger that sjourns among Okay. What about Ezekiel 47 verse 22? It shall come to pass that and you shall divide it by lot for an inheritance. Um and this is not Ezekiel actually. The the verse I'm about to read next. This is actually from the book of I think it's the book of Numbers. Um but it shall come to pass that you shall divide by lot for an inheritance unto you and to the strangers that sjourn among you.

This might be Ezekiel 47 22 and 23. They shall have inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel. So again, we see that God was in favor of strangers dwelling among the people, right? God was in favor of strangers dwelling among his people. There was no uh there were no laws that required a check of well what's your background before you entered into Israel. This is the God of the universe. We we can come back we can come back to the screen. This is the God of the universe right? Um so as we look at the Bible now we see wait a minute there is no place in scripture Mhm.

in which God commanded Israel to set up a process whereby they vetted people who were coming into Israel. Now I don't know who's more concerned about sin who can more who could be more concerned about sin than God. And God in his divine providence set up no process whereby the stranger was to be vetted. That's right. Promo the Exodus included Egyptians. Yeah. Now, if anybody deserved to be checked, if if there was ever if Israel ever had the right to you an Egyptian, hold on. But no such they y'all just tried to kill us.

The only place God is checking is who's coming back into heaven. That's right. And there's just that's right, you know, and he's doing the work to change the hearts. But I'm just saying that's the only place that he's not allowing That's right. whatever is in heaven. Because the reason because here we're all in the same boat. We're all sinners. It doesn't matter where we live. It doesn't matter whether you're a citizen of an immigrant can come here and lose their life because of a citizen. I mean, we're all sinners.

Absolutely. And many immigrants did come here and have their lives taken by citizens. Right? That was back in back in the 1800s. Definitely immigrants came and lost their lives at the hands of citizens. Right? So what I'm saying is that it happens both ways. What I'm saying is that according to the Bible, no distinction was ever to be made between citizen and foreigner. And in fact, it was a sin. Let's go back to Zechariah 7:10. Notice on the screen, we're commanded to not oppress the widow, nor the fatherless, nor the stranger, nor the poor.

And let none of you imagine evil against his brother in his heart. Uh Matthew 25:35 and 40. For I was hunger. I was hungered and you gave me meat. I was a stranger and you took me in. Okay, let's let's let's pause for a moment. making a difference between citizen and foreigner. We can't do that biblically. Excuse me. because the Bible nowhere lays out rules for a nation on here's how I want you to deal with citizens. There's a pretty serious issue, right? Where because a country does something doesn't mean that it's right.

A country has a right to do something. Every country has the right to make their own laws. So now I want you to see where where I'm going with this, right? The United States of America and every other country on the planet has a right to make their laws, but the right to make the laws does not equate with the laws being right. Y'all put a one in the chat if that makes sense. Don't think don't think don't think uh uh immigration laws right now. I'm simply saying the right to make a law does not make the law itself right.

We have plenty of of examples of this. Um in the days of slavery. So in the days of slavery uh the slave owners would let's go back to the screen. Romans 13:1, let every soul be subject unto the p higher powers, for there is no power of God. Uh there is no power but of God at uh the powers that be are ordained of God. Verse two, let's see, verse two is not on there, but it basically tells us that we should obey the government. The problem is that we can obey the government as long as it does not go against the law of God.

Then as Christians, we're called to rather obey God than man. Does that make sense? when we when we then look at the immigration policies of this country now and I'm not talking about all I'm just talking about in general because the immigration policies are pretty broad. What I'm saying is this. According to the Bible, we find no example in scripture of God ever ordaining or calling sin calling a sin someone moving from one country into another. They were not to be treated different. They were not to be given a different set of rules.

They were not to be oppressed. They were not to be looked down upon. They were not to be Yeah. They were not to be vexed. They were not to be demonized. They were not to be called criminals. They were not to None of that. All of this All of that is considered breaking the second greatest commandment, which is thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. It was never illegal to go into another country. Mhm. Let me let me rephrase that. In the Bible, the Bible never calls it an illegal act to cross the boundaries of another country.

Never. Now, a country may have had laws that said you can't come in. That's different from it being biblical. It may be a real law and that country may expect you to obey that law. And as far as that goes, that's the law. All I'm simply saying is because something is legal doesn't make it lawful. I'm just taking Jonathan's words. Because something is legal doesn't make it biblical. Let me let me let me Yeah. You tweak that a little bit. Because something is legal doesn't make it a biblical position.

Mhm. The idea that someone has committed a crime against God for entering into the United States of America to seek a better life because they're leaving a place of famine or a place of bloodshed or a place of war. Think about it in the context of God. Is God looking down and going, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. What have you just done? Mhm. You're trying to get into another country to get a better life, to live a better life, to to to provide for your Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.

Now, I am not saying that the immigration laws of America are necessarily uh unjust, right? We're America's, you know, we let people in and they're different, you know, step. You go through a process. You go through a process. There's a process. Praise God that there's a process. That's a very slow It's a very slow process. However, it's a very broken process. It's a very broken process. But what I'm saying is that in the Bible, there was no process. Now, brother Tennessee, not everybody that comes to America is good.

Not everybody in America is good, but not everybody in America is good either. If we're trying to keep out sin or trying to keep out criminals, I mean, that's one thing that is a process. By keeping out immigrants, you're not keeping out criminals. Listen, there's a lot of people that are afraid to come to America. the gun violence. Look at what happens today. Like people in other countries like we're the only schools that get shot up. Only schools that get shot up. So it's kind of scary to It's not happening in other countries.

Migrate to America and send your kids to to school here. Yeah. Because in their countries that doesn't happen. So sin exists everywhere. See what I'm saying, brother Tennessee? That's right. Sin exists everywhere. If we think by keeping out the immigrants, we're keeping out sin. Whoa. Or by keeping out immigrants, we're keeping out crime, right? Whoa. Crime is not dependent upon Crime is not dependent upon upon where you're from. Crime is a matter of the human heart. Crime is not something that crosses political crosses national boundaries.

Crime is something that is found in the heart and immigration laws are not going to stop the contents of the heart. Right? Are y'all following me so far? So again, I'm just arguing from a biblical perspective. And you know, yeah, when you argue from the Bible, you could always be wrong. If someone says, "Hey, pastor, here's a study that proves that God is for uh immigration laws where you check people before they come into your country because you want to see what their past was." Man, can you imagine if heaven was based on that principle?

I want to see what your past what your past is. He knows. Yeah. Now, he knows our past. Remember and he knows when we remember when we decided to go for Jesus and That's right. Erase, erase our path. Israelites should have been all over the Egyptians. Israelites should have been eyeing the Egyptians. They should have been like, "You can't come with us. You can't come with us. Look what you just did. You had us enslaved and now we're free and now and you want to come with us." I mean, that would have been the natural human exactly nature response.

But watch this, y'all. God set a or I don't want you around my children. You're not saved. God set, think about this. Some of those very slave owners had beat their children, had beaten them. Mercy. And then God says he puts a protective barrier around the Egyptians that were like, "Hey, we're coming with you." Because they saw what h they saw the plagues and they saw God, you know, that's right. Make a way. And it doesn't mean that they were all converted. No, I'm not saying they were converted, but they were like, h of course maybe I should go with you, right?

But it doesn't mean that they were all converted, right? They could they they could have easily come in and committed crimes. But guess what? If you come into the country and you commit crimes and break break the laws of Israel, whether you're a a citizen or a stranger, you are getting punished the same way. It wasn't a different degree of punishment for the stranger than it was for Israel. Mhm. So when the Bible says obey the laws of God or obey the laws of the government, remember there's a caveat to that.

It's not just whatever the government says is right is is is the Christian thing to do. No, not at all. When the when the government makes a law that is contrary to the Christian values of love your neighbor as yourself, then I'm not saying to go out and necessarily necessarily protest the law, but you can at least in your mind say, "Hey, it's the law of the land, but as a Christian, I have to disagree because biblically I cannot justify making a difference between the citizen between the citizen and the immigrant.

This is God's land. This is God's earth, not mine. Okay? Now, now hold your thought here because there they're they're important questions that rise because of this. Let's go to Acts 17:26. And I think we're we're going to get to the questions most people have on their minds, right? What about the elite? What about the crime? And what about this and what about that? Hold on. So, Acts 17 verse 26. Were you gonna say something? No, I'm just thinking. Okay. Citizens commit crime every day. Exact. Citizens commit crimes every day.

So the Bible says in Acts 17:26, "God has made of one blood all nations of men and has determined the times before appointed and the bounds of their habitation." And some people have used this verse, some people have used this verse to say that God sets up boundaries. But if that is true, God sets up boundaries. Yes. But listen y'all. If the verse is being used to say what people try to make it say, then it would be a sin to cross those boundaries. It would be a sin for someone to eur from Europe to come to America.

It would be a sin for someone from America to go to London, for someone from America to go to Africa. And God has no such boundaries. So if God has no such boundaries, who are we to put such boundaries in place? Because we want to keep our crime. God says, "Look, the crime is in your heart. It's not a So, yes, you're absolutely correct. But I don't think our immigration laws have been set up because of crime. But we're gonna get to that. Okay, let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen and and I want you to check this out, right?

So, God did have boundaries for Israel. There were walls set up and there is a reason why. Yes, there God Israel was to protect itself from what? Let's pause for a second. Just take this down for a second. What was Israel to protect themselves from? I'm going to use a word and it begins with the word I. I'm going see if you guys can guess it. What What did God expect Israel to? What did God say? Israel, I will protect you from this. begins with a with the word I and it's a military word. It's a military word.

So it's when not one Chinese person or African person or you know Mexican, not one, not 10, not 20,000, but an entire army of another nation wants to what? I next word is N. Next, what's the word? Next letter is N. In invasion. Invasion. Invade. Very good. Governments have the right to protect themselves from invasion. That's a different story. Listen to me now. Immigration is a very different thing from invasion. So let me see if some put a one in the chat if you would if you would agree that immigration and invasion are two different things in the true sense of the meaning of invasion and like in war.

Yes, invasion and immigrant immigration are two different things but the way some have tried we're getting there. We're getting there. What is an invasion? An invasion is a military attack on another nation. Did were there countries that attempted to invade Israel? Absolutely. Y'all yes. And and when a nation is being invaded, do they have a right to protect themselves? Absolutely beloved. An invasion is a military event. So what do you see the problem here is? What do you see the problem is here?

is not an invasion. To use the word invasion to apply to immigrants is by nature to demonize immigrants and to oppress them and to vex them. Every immigrant every immigrant that enters this country illegal is a sinner. Every immigrant that enters this country today legally is a sinner, could be drug dealing, maybe a drinker, maybe a murderer, just as every citizen in this country is a sinner, could be a drug dealer, could be a murderer. geographical boundaries do nothing to address the problem of sin.

So what I'm saying is when we take the term invasion and apply it to immigrants seeking to find a better life are are there sinners asylum safety asylum say are there immigrants that are sinners that are entering into this country? Mhm. Every last one of them is a sinner. Are there immigrants? Are there citizens in this country that are criminals? Yes. Are there are there citizens in this country that are sinners? Every one of them. Mhm. The problem that The problem that I see is that when we see immigrants coming into this country as an invasion, we're now employing military terms, which means, yeah, those Mexicans are dangerous.

Most of them are dangerous. Maybe not all of them, but many of them are dangerous. particularly more dangerous than us Americans because we're American and they're not of us. They are not like us. I just want to say um this is and now now we're going to come I'm sorry I'm cutting you off but now we're going to come to the heat of the study. So y'all better be ready for this. I'm gonna go back to the screen but go ahead. So, I was just going to say what you what you just said like so from my personal experience living in growing up in a border state to Mexico and California.

I grew up all around. I mean, legal immigrants and I know illegal immigrants as well. Um, couldn't have felt safer. Couldn't have felt safer. Kind, hardworking. um helpful when you need a helping hand um type of people. I mean just the culture Yeah. the uh strong family um structure and base that they they have because I mean it's very strong. Yeah. amazing food. But no, but with the safety thing um I never I just want to say this. I just I never ever felt unsafe. Yeah. Um I mean it's not saying like every single person was not, you know, had never done bad things, but the majority that's not the case.

And I just think that because there's um a picture that has been painted that that is so many of illegal immigrants coming from Yeah. um our southern border. Pause. That's just not the case. But go ahead. It's spiritual. I see your question and I'm coming to that next that very thing next. So So I see it and I'm I'mma address that. Okay. Go ahead. Well, I just had to say that um I just I never experienced that. So and here's the thing, you guys. As far as the Bible is concerned, there is no such thing as an illegal alien.

The only illegal aliens in the Bible were invading armies. Otherwise, that part right there, Carrie, go ahead. Yeah, there is no such thing in the Bible as an illegal alien. You don't belong here. Wait, you're in Israel? Wait, who? You're an Egyptian? There is no such thing as an illegal alien. in a United States context, yes, there is such a thing as an illegal alien. But the United States definition of an illegal alien and any other country you want to use that has these same laws is not a biblical definition.

So what I'm saying is you may agree, you may feel better with, you know, the laws regarding illegal alien, but all I want you to understand is that according to the Bible, there is no such thing as an illegal alien. The only illegal aliens in the Bible were invading armies. Armies that were trying to invade Israel, destroy Israel. And then and then in that context any army trying to invade another country that is what was considered illegal. Now again you might say I agree with American policy but you can't agree with it on biblical grounds because there is no biblical ground to agree with there.

There's no Bible-based argument. Now, now it's time to check the history. So, if you know if and if you look at ancient Rome, you look at you know uh ancient Babylon, you look at there were never any laws to my knowledge, to my understanding, there might have been certain laws that were laws in general, but there was never an where's your visa papers, right? Where? Where's your Where's your passport? There were open border policies. And here's the interesting thing. America once had open border policies.

Y'all put a one in the chat if you knew that. America once had open border uh policies. Put a one in the chat if you knew that. There was a time the laws that we have in place now were not always part of American history. in the 1700s, in the 1800s, and really up to about the 18 up to about 1880, there were no laws prohibiting people. Now, why do you think, so I'm seeing the ones in the chat, and I'm going to ask a question. Why do you think there were no border policies in America before the 1880s?

While they're while you're while they're thinking, I just want to say because somebody's comment made me think of this, like we're all illegal immigrants when it comes to heaven. That's right. But God extended grace. That's right. Okay, that's all I had to say. That's That's right. We all des we all deserve no no entrance. Yep. Yep. Cuz we're all criminals. Cuz we're all criminals. We are all criminals. All And he extended He gave his life extended grace. Yeah. And forgave us. Yeah. Yeah. So, and changed us, of course, but we get to come in.

So, okay. So, again, um Gigi, we just read that Romans 13:1, uh be subject to the government. Um we read that and understood that that there is context to that when the government says we want to pass a Sunday law we will trust me people will not be walking Adventists will not be walking around saying Romans 13:1 and2 right obey the government no there's a certain place a certain point where when the laws of the land force you to embibe in the spirit that is against God's commandments whether that is loving God with all your heart or loving your neighbor as yourself.

Listen y'all, this is a very serious thing because if if you are treating the the the stranger as somehow inherently criminal, you are breaking the second commandment which says, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." You're breaking the commandment that says, "Do not treat the stranger, the foreigner, as some do not vex or oppress the foreigner." now or treat them like they're beneath you. According to the Bible, there's no such thing as an illegal immigrant, an illegal sjourer, an illegal foreigner.

In fact, when Jesus comes back, he's going to say, "In as much as you did this unto the least of these, my brethren," he's talking about the strangers. Now, the question is, why were there no immigration laws in the 1800s? We had people coming into America, but who were they? Who were the people coming into America? Y'all go ahead and put it in the chat. In the 1800s, everybody in America are immigrants. That's right. Or from somewhere else. Yeah. So, who were the people that were coming into America in the 1860s, in the 1840s, in the 1830s, in the 1820s?

Who are they? Where were they coming from? Let me ask that question. Where were the foreigners coming from? Now, don't include Africa, okay? Because there were no Africans coming here of their own free will, right? The only black people, the only Africans that were here were taken by force, right? There are no immigration, there are no immigration laws needed for that. But they were Europeans. Europeans, right? So Europeans were coming into the land freely. Freely. No question on on on immigration.

Nothing. And why were they coming? Yeah. They were coming to escape tyranny. Yeah. They so they could worship God the way they wanted or just have a better life than better life. Better life than what they were. Better life. Mercy. Then something happened. Uh let's go. Let's go to the screen. Uh, anybody ever heard of the yellow peril? The yellow peril? So, the yellow per the yellow peril and the Chinese exclusion act of 1882. The yellow peril, also the also known as the yellow terror, the yellow menace, and the yellow spectre, is a racist color metaphor that depicts the people of East and Southern and Southeast Asia as an existential danger to the Western world.

And so the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 was passed. This was the first major federal restriction on immigration and it explicit explicitly banned an ethnic group and had to execute certain treaty stipulations relating to Chinese. So let's come back for a moment. Immigration laws did not start until when? What was the what was the reason behind the first immigration law in America? to so to stop the Chinese and to stop. So remember the yellow peril, if you never heard of it, the yellow peril was basically this fear of who are these Chinese people?

They're they're lower than us. Um they are they are beneath us, but they're coming to America in droves. Wait a minute. They are invading. What are they doing? They're going to try to invade the country. Take over. Replace. Yes. Invade. So Indie said criminals have been Patrice said Indies. No. Criminals have been coming to America since 19 since 1492. Listen to me y'all. That needs to be a t-shirt. That is a t-shirt. That is a t-shirt. Patrice, make the t-shirt. That's a t-shirt. Part of her clothing line.

In this country, we have laws to deal with criminals. And any person in this country should be subject to those laws. You steal, we don't care where you from, you're going to jail, right? You lie, you bear false witness, you kill. Whatever the issue is in this country, we're a country of laws. In this country, if you do this, this, and this, you're going to jail. You're going to be punished for it. Bottom line. That's as far as we can agree politic biblically. Now, if you want to agree politically, then go ahead and agree politically, but don't say that it's Bible.

No. Right. That's all I'm saying. You may agree, you may say, "Yeah, we need these laws, but we didn't need them in the 1860s, in the 1850s." But once people of different color started coming into the country freely, this is the history behind immigration, immigration laws in America. It all it all leads back to the same thing. Meaning like this is somebody's comment in the chat. It said the Europeans came and they actually killed the n the native people and took over. They did exactly that was an invasion.

They Yes. They did exactly what they're afraid of others are going to do to them. Yeah. And listen y'all, this is not we're not talking everybody, right? We're not talking, oh this is everybody. We're just saying historically speaking, it's history. History. This is what happened. And so now, and listen, immigration laws is not a political party thing. No, both political parties have backed immigration laws. And I think it's they do it so now because it's just such a part of American society, right?

Oh, you got to have immigration laws. That's common sense. However, it may be common sense, but it's not biblical sense. It's not biblical to determine, oh well, you get to come in and you don't you don't get to come in. Now listen, if there's a criminal that's if you know that someone's coming in to do harm to the country, you have every right to say, yeah, no, no, no, no. We're not letting you in this country. And that should be on a person byperson basis. M but just the blanket treatment regarding those who are seeking refuge in this country.

You cannot say it is biblical. What I'm and and what's happening right now I mean obviously you guys all watch the news so you see what's happening right now. That is nothing compared to um yes there were immigration laws on the books um they were not being enforced in this way. This is um inhumane way that it's being forced enforced. Right. Right. So I mean so it's no comparison to what was on the books. I mean whether it's you know politicians in general I mean there's immigration laws so it's whether Democrat or Republican there's laws but yeah it's a different discussion of what's happening today what's happening right now it's completely completely different and in the past in the past if you what we're saying if you broke the law if you were here illegally and you broke the law then you are deported immediately if you've in the past.

If you've come here illegally and you have been um a good citizen, you're paying your taxes, you're working, you have a job, you are you are contributing to this country. Yeah. Then they made a way for you to become a legal citizen. Yeah. That just makes common and humanitarian sense. Yeah. And it matches more with the Bible. So now again, I'm not even dealing with what's happening today. That's that's not what I'm dealing with at all. But that's where our minds are. That's where our minds are and that's why we're talking about this, right?

But what I'm saying is if we just put it aside because some people say, "Oh, well, it's political. If the Democrats do it, then no." I'm saying that as a whole, we need to understand why immigration laws became a reality in America. So it started in 1882 with the Chinese Exclusion Act. That was the first one. And now I want you to see this. Let's go back to the screen. 1924. 1924, the National Origins Act of 1924, which cottified basically white supremacy. Basically, the immigration act of 1924 instituted racial quotas that drastically limited immigration from non European nations.

This was based on eugenics and the belief that some races were were more assimilable. Um, it favored the northern and western European countries and banned almost all Asians except Filipinos due to US colonial control. Uh, America must be kept American. This law made immigration a tool of racial and c cultural engineering. So, here's what I'm saying you guys. It started with keep the Chinese out because they were the first ones that were trying to, you know, get, hey, we want to come to America, too.

But by 1924, now when other uh um we can take that off the screen. We can take it off the screen. When other nationalities and people are now trying to come to America now, in order to preserve the the makeup of what America was, immigration laws were upped. Now listen you guys. It it's important for us to understand we live in a sinful world. And I know we you know we we like to idealize America has its good, but it also has its bad. And we cannot close our eyes to the bad just because the good is good.

And listen, the good is good. Nobody's saying the good is not good. But as a Christian, when you're navigating these kinds of issues, you have to be careful to think biblically because when you end up getting on a bandwagon of, yeah, this is why I believe this. You may not even realize that you are fighting against the spirit of God because what you think is a good law is actually putting within you a spirit of judgment against people who are not of your ilk, who are not of your tribe, who are not of your color, who are not of your nation.

Yeah. Yeah. We're better than them. We are. Yeah, they're illegal. What makes them illegal just because they desire to live a better life for themselves and their children? What makes them criminals? What makes them illegal? What makes them so a people to be feared because they recognize the opportunities? Why should they why should they wait 10 years to get an opportunity to live a better life? Again, do I have all the answers? No. Um, but you're just laying out biblical principles. I'm just laying out biblical principles.

So, pastor, what are you saying we do as a nation? I don't know. I don't I don't have the answer. I I think that Yeah. you know when people are coming into your country uh when people are coming into the country you you want to of it's natural to want to make sure that someone is not coming in with ill intent but how do you judge the human heart how do you judge a sleeper who says hey you know what I've been training for 20 years to come into your country and blow stuff up but I have an impeccable record in my country you can't spot that We know when a country is trying to invade us, but don't put upon an immigrant population the the title of invader or invasion because you are vexing the strangers who are looking to live a better life.

I think yeah I mean if they're saying like pastor what do we do? Well, this is me speaking, but they say, "What do we what are we supposed to do?" I think number one, I think it would be so healthy for America, really, for our political leaders and for American citizens, for us, as you took a um a journey backwards into history. Um because our biggest um issue in life that causes problems is that we forget, right? Be a student of history. um and understand that this country was founded by um I don't know if I want to call them illegal immigrants, but they did did illegal things when they got here because there was already somebody here.

So, and they, you know, they invaded and took over uh over the land. And so what I'm saying is the way you I say you the way America was started the way you it was established and came and and started and and people came here. Um I mean there were already Native Americans here. Um but what you again I'm going to say this again what you are afraid of is what has already been done. Yeah. And then now a group of people did that Now, um you don't want to allow other people to be able to flee something that is um obviously not a good life, right?

I mean, I just want to I just want to really keep it and I pause for a second. Hold your thought. Okay. Uh Peterson asks, "What about lootings, gangs, murder, and vandalism is not seeking refuge? How do we reconcile that?" And listen, I I agree. But here's what I'm saying, Peterson, is that looting, gangs, murder, and vandalism is not an immigration thing. It's not. Those who are looting and No, no, no, no, no. Hold on. I mean, I'm saying before we even talk about those who are looting, there's citizens that are looting.

I'm not say I'm saying that looting is a crime. Being in a gang is a crime. Those are citizens. Murder is a crime. Vandalism is a crime. So we shouldn't look at those things as well is a citizen doing it or is a uh an illegal immigrant an illegal immigrant. No is a person doing this that person needs to be arrested. So when we stop thinking Peterson does that make sense? When we stop thinking in the in the sense of are they one of us doing this or are we allowed to do this but they not? No. Nobody's allowed to loot, be in a gang, murder or vandalize.

And that is not a particularly migrant thing to do, right? That is a human thing. So that's why when the Bible says there should be there should be one law for the stranger and for him that and for the the the citizen, this this is exactly what we're saying. And I would like to say we don't say he's a murderer because he's a he's a migrant. He's a murderer because he's a murderer. And because they speak in blanket terms, this is what you see on the media. This is what you see on the media in and in in some circles.

They speak in blank blanket terms. Um like you know they are they're they're raping our women. They're uh committing crimes. All of that they so this is the military now. This is an organized group of people that are actually seeking to invade. And that is the and that's not even factual. Those numbers are not there. Those numbers don't exist. I mean does that happen on um you know in small much much much smaller numbers yes um but there's the numbers are are greater or higher with citizens doing those crimes when I can tell you I mean which is why I go back to saying the question is not about was it a citizen but I'm talking about the rape and the molestation those are family members that are citizens and not all family members but the majority are family members that that are citizens that are harming our young women and our little boys too.

And here's what I'm saying. This is a human problem. It is not an immigrant problem, right? It is not a citizen problem. It is a human problem. So when we start to say the immigrants are looting and the we're what we're saying is the immigrants are animals and we are we are civilized people. The immigrants and the countries they come from are animals and we are civilized people. And this is why God says no, do not oppress the do not vex the immigrant. And this is what I think our society is leading people in to inherit this disposition of we are better than you because we're American and you're from those, you know, those bad countries, those countries that those countries that where they do these things.

You are you are an animal when you think you're betterized. Exactly. When you think you're better than another group of people, those are racist thoughts. That's that's creating racist thoughts. We are not better as Americans than than other people. We have that same bad behavior right here in our country. And we have it and large we have it at larger numbers than what foreigners come in and do to us. We do much worse to ourselves. Yeah. Yeah. So, so here's the thing. When you understand that our immigration laws, let me let me let me Yeah, there is there is so much here.

Um, yeah. Let let's go to this screen real quick just so that you see that I'm not saying this is a political like a political party thing, right? 1986, Reagan signs the Immigration Reform and Control Act grants amnesty to 3 million undocumented immigrants, but criminalizes employers for hiring them. In 1996, Bill Clinton signs uh I r iir expanding deportation powers, mandating mandatory detentions in 2001 to present. Um um policies have framed immigration as a national security issue and it goes on, right?

So this is not oh it's the Republicans doing this or this is an American thing, right? And I think Obama um deported more more than I know he did yeah more than Trump did in his first but it was according to probably more than any other any other president but that was of he was giving well according to the numbers that they were illegal they no I'm sorry they were illegal immigrants but they had committed crimes they were they had committed crimes while they were here and they really started to clean house at that but that's what the numbers say.

So what I'm saying is that this is both this is an American thing, right? It's not Republican versus Democrat. It is the fact that this is a policy that began in America on racist grounds, but now it's become such part of the fabric that we just take it as normal. Yeah, everybody knows this, As Christians, we need to go back and say, "Hey, is this is this framework isn't even is this framework even biblical? Is it biblical to say someone is an illegal? Is it show me an illegal immigrant in the Bible?

Show me the problem of illegal immigration in the Bible. when you look at Israel's history, when Jesus came, man, they were like, "Get the Romans out of our of our place." Yeah, they were occupying. But that spirit of we don't like others who are not like us, that was even in And I believe it's in the church, the the Protestant church today as a whole. Yeah, it's there. It's there. So, the idea of preserving America because of a fear. And listen to me y'all. If you don't believe what I'm saying now, go and Google go and Google the replacement uh the great replacement.

M just go Google the great replacement to see what that is. The great replacement is an is this idea that there is a plot out to replace Americans and a certain type of Americans by bringing in all the immigrants. This is a calculated plot. It's it's the same thing they said about the Chinese when they were coming into the country in the in the 1880s. So they made the im the the Chinese act of 1882. This is not new and belove I believe that a lot that that had its origin in the mind of Satan. How can I get people to hate each other?

How can I get people? How can I get people to think that they are better than they are better than the others? And you're coming and this is history. I'm not making this history up. This is history. Immigration laws in this country were designed to keep out non-Europeans. Period. So, I don't think it's the same. It's exactly the same today. That's not what I'm saying. But I need you to take in context the origin of why America has a system. And the origin is not good. And I think to a large degree there is a lot of that spirit still alive in what's going on today.

I would high yes a lot a lot of that spirit because of that spirit I mean is what's going on today is ICE invading the northern border no just the southern and places where I mean yeah so to say that there to believe that an invasion is happening in this country is the most on this basis is the most unbiblical position that a Christian could take regarding this. An invasion is a military conquest. Immigrants are not to be treated as enemies. Immigrant versus invasion are two two different things different things.

Mhm. And if you have a mass of people trying to get into a country to live a better life that is not an invasion, not in God's eyes. No such thing in the Bible as an illegal immigrant. Now again, let me close with this. If you want to politically agree on this policy, that is your right. All I'm saying is don't say that that's based on the Bible. Right? That's all. And in fact, you should recognize that is that it is diametrically opposed to the Bible, but you still have the right to believe it.

But just don't think that you're doing the Christian thing or you're believing the Christian thing because a lot of Christians back this. Don't think that. Um, all right. Yeah, we're definitely over time today, guys, but it's quite the topic and I think a good history lesson or refresher and reminder for for some um and so yeah, that was a very good very good study. Thank you. Yeah. And uh we are so thankful to all of you for for being here and participating. Please share on your social media. Invite your friends and family to church today because we're just getting started.

Even though we went over some, but we're still just getting started. Do you want to let them know what your topic is today? I will, but I I you know what it's I see so many questions in the chat. So many good questions, so many good comments, and so many honest questions. You know what? You know, I don't see anybody here like hating. Right. Right. Right. No. And I think it's good. That's I see people having genuine questions and that's this is what I'm gonna tell them to do. Bring that to the afterlow.

Well, you'll be there so you can answer. I'm just saying if you try to answer all those questions, we gonna be here forever. There won't be no sermon today. Uh but we do have boundaries here. Yeah. We really don't with our time, but we try to So, let me let me let me let this be the last thing. Okay. Any act of vandalism done in any set of pro in any act of protest is illegal and those people should be arrested. Of course, because that's and not pardoned. Are the protest that Wait, wait, stop. You said not pardoned and not pardoned.

Oh, there you go. Anybody involved in a violent protest who is doing violence, that is a crime. Doesn't matter if they're a citizen, doesn't matter if they're if they're a a sjourer. I'm I'm gonna stop using the term illegal, right? Illegal alien because the Bible doesn't recognize any such thing. Right? So, what I'm saying is regardless of who or what it is, if there is violence, that should be punished by the law. Go ahead. Right. And I really almost forgot what I was I think I forgot what I was gonna say cuz cuz I cut you off a whole bunch of times.

Um, can we get all the clip? Can we get all the clips of him interrupting me? Because people love to say I interrupt him, but he does it too. But go ahead. But I don't care. You Yeah. You were asking me what I'm going to speak about. So Oh, yeah. That was it. Yeah. So my sermon today is on the king of the north and the king of the south, but it will it is going to be something that you have may have never heard before and some connections with which are absolutely profound and it's going to be a sort of a followup on our last two messages.

So the Holy Spirit is just building. Please make sure make sure you share this link because I'm coming I'm coming at the idea of the king of the south and the king of the north from a totally different perspective maybe than anything you have ever ever ever heard and it will challenge you. So yeah, so don't go anywhere. You want to stay tuned as they say. Well, we do want to end uh or close this part of our service with prayer, but please don't go away because we're coming right back with our divine worship service and we want you to be there.

Remember, share uh this link on your social media and like and invite your friends and family to church. All right, let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you Lord for this uh study this this morning today. Lord, I pray Lord that we will as Christians we will we will stop and think carefully Lord about um about positions that we hold, positions that we take for granted that we would search everything according to the Bible and to see whether you approve or not, Lord. So please Lord, help us to be people of the book in everything that we say and do.

And we thank you Lord. Be with us in our upcoming service. Uh be with me as I deliver this message called Evangelism, the King of the North and the King of the South. Lord, and uh may this message have an impact upon us like like um like very few things have. Lord, may it open our eyes and our hearts to something that is crucial that we must understand. And we thank you, Lord, for hearing and answering because we ask it in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. 1 1600 miles away from the nearest continent, there's a lazy, laid-back land where the days are long and time slows down.

Just like a tired sea turtle resting on a white sandy beach. A place where the minutes feel like hours and the hours can feel like days. a relaxing rest where you can pause from the hustle and bustle of life and just be in the moment. The locals call it Fiji time. It simply means that nothing happens in a hurry and that whatever is supposed to happen will eventually happen. So relax and enjoy the wait. But it's more than just the way the locals view time. It's the way they view life. To be honest, even though I grew up on an island, many times I find it difficult to slow down.

There's just so much to do and so little time in which to do it. And I know that many task oriented people like me can relate. But once you've experienced Fiji or island time for yourself, you begin to realize that you've been missing out on something so essential in life. Because the reality is that the quality of your life increases in proportion to your quality of rest. We could stop the fighting. Today we live in a world full of appointments, schedules, deadlines, and cut off dates. Life is crowded with so much activity, assignments, and engagements.

There are so many things fighting for our attention and pulling us in so many different directions. We live in a task oriented world that seems to be more concerned with production rather than people. And in this fast-paced society filled with sound bites and flashing lights, sometimes we find it hard to even breathe. It's so easy to get caught up in trying to make a living that we never really live. Many people come to the end of their lives filled with regret, realizing that their years have been consumed with things that don't really matter.

There are few things worse than coming to the end of your days wishing you had more time to live in the moment. But here's the good news. In this world that is constantly on the grind, God is offering to us Fiji time. Time to trade in the mess of our stress for the best of God's rest. Time to decompress from the pressures of life. Time to enjoy this precious gift of God called the present. To be in the here and in the now, to live in the moment. And while it is true that in the light of the last days, we are to live with a sense of urgency.

It is also true that God is calling us to be still and to know that he is God. much closer, closer than it seems. You see, we are called human beings, not human doings. And most people get so caught up in constantly doing that if they forget to simply be. Friends, if the enemy cannot make you bad, he will make you busy. He will crowd your life with so much clutter that you will have no time to spend with the one who inhabits eternity. And without him, life is a neverending pursuit of happiness that will eventually lead to devastation, disappointment, and death.

And so, are you sick and tired of being sick and tired? Are you overwhelmed by the stresses of life? Do you feel yourself drowning in a sea of activity, burdened in a beehive of busyiness, wrapped up in a web of weariness? Well, if so, the God of rest says to you today, "Come unto me, all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, learn from me, for I'm meek and lowly in heart, and you shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light.

For in returning and in rest, you shall be saved. In quietness and confidence, you shall find your strength. And as we come to lay down our burdens at the feet of Jesus and learn to live more of our lives on Fiji time, the God of peace shall give us rest for the rest of our journey. Rest not only for time, but for all eternity. No more senseless dying. Jesus came to make us one. To show all others of his love we need. We could stop the fighting. make us one to show all others of his love. We need Heat.

Hey, Heat. welcome. Welcome back, Living Mana Church family. So happy that you decided to continue to worship with us today. Please put in the chat where you are viewing from. I know our numbers have doubled since we started the program. And so if you have not yet put in the chat where you're viewing from, please do that at this time. So we can say a very special welcome to you. Again, we are just so very happy uh that you have decided to come here to Living Mana online church and worship with our church family.

We are thrilled and excited to have each and every one of you. Also, I know that this is Father's Day weekend. So, want to say happy Father's Day to all of the fathers out there. I had an amazing father. I had an amazing grandfather. and I married an amazing man who is an amazing father. So, I want to say happy father's day to my husband, Pastor Ivor Meyers. He is a great father uh to our four children and an amazing grandfather to our grandchildren and I am so thankful uh to have him as a husband and as a father to our children.

So, happy Father's Day to him and to all of you. Okay, we have Tim from Jacksonville, Florida. Welcome, Takara. Welcome from Indianapolis. Of course, you were just on with us. Uh Jane, um from Mount Ary, Maryland. Welcome to Living Mana Church. All right. So, there's more. We have um Well, Paul, I don't know if you're I think you're from Maryland, too. You're saying it's a great Okay. From the great state of Maryland. Paul, welcome. Happy Sabbath to you. Uh, Sister Joanne Stevens, um, from Trinidad and Tobago.

Always good to see you. Uh, Sister Joanne, welcome. All right. Good to see everybody here. Ah, and we have a one in the chat and the handle says, "Hello, love." So, to hello, love. Welcome to Living Manage Church. Uh, this is a completely 100% online church. We are not just here on Saturday. the Sabbath, but we are here all throughout the week with programming. So, in just a few moments, I'm going to show you how you can sign up to get alerts about our different programming when we're going live.

But just to let you know, we have mental health Mondays on Monday. We have True Health Tuesdays. On Tuesdays, we have prayer. We have prayer all the time, but we have prayer programming on Wednesdays. We have two programs, the power line and power Wednesday. And then we have a program for the young adults on Thursday with our young adult, Pastor Loami Richardson. So, we have lots of programming going on here. So, you're going to want to know about all of them. And again, just in a moment, I'll share with you on how you can uh sign up to get alerts and to find out more information about them as well.

So, want to welcome Brian Thompson from Trinidad. Good to see you here. Happy Sabbath to you. and to everyone else who has just joined joined us for the first time today. We are so happy that you are here. So now I want to uh just show you how you can stay connected to the living mana church um so that you can be again reminded when we're going live and when what programs uh we have going on and you can do that by signing up to get connected with Living Mana Church if you are here in America. That's the way that that happens.

So you all you do is you can text LMOC to that 8552074107 number and then it would it will automatically sign you up to get text alerts so you can know what's going on with Living Matter Church and what's happening. But again, that only works here in the United States. And as I was reading the list and welcoming everybody, you could see we have people from all around the world. And so, um, you're going to want to sign up for Mighty Networks, not just to get these alerts, but on Mighty Networks is where our community, how we form community here at Living Manage Church.

So, there you'll be able to learn about all the different small groups. Uh, you'll get to message the leaders, meet members, meet viewing audience. Uh, they're there on Mighty Network and you also get alerts and information through Mighty Network as well. So all of our intern everybody will get it but that especially works for our international viewership and members. So please sign up for mighty networks. It's right there in the chat. Um this that's our virtual church home. So if again if you're wanting to stay connected to living mana church that is how you do that.

Also want to let everyone know that we do have programming for kids and it's called LOC kids. We have a great team that leads out in LMOC kids and they start at 11:30 central time on Sabbath morning and they go for about an hour and a half. If you want to sign your kids up for LMC kids, you can text kids to that 855 number or you can also email the leadership team there at lmocid living manana.urch. And the kids program is wonderful. They are having fun. they are learning the deep things in the Bible and having fun uh while doing so.

So, if you would like to get your kids involved, they even do uh photo theology on the level for kids. Um and so they're learning even those things and doing an amazing job with that. So, if you want your kids involved in LOC kids, again, you're going to want to um text kids to that 855 number or you can send an email to the email that's on the screen. If you would like to become a member of Living Matter Church. Um there's three ways that you can do that. you if you are um already a member of the 7th Day Adventist Church, but your membership is at another church and you'd like to transfer your membership, you can just send an email to patrice at livinga.live live and that will get the ball rolling for you to be able to transfer your membership or or if you are a Christian have already been baptized but you would like to become a 7-day advent 7day Adventist and a member you can join the church by profession of faith because you because that way if you feel like you don't need to be rebaptized then you can join by profession of faith and you can use that same email to do that and then if you would like to be baptized um into the 7th Day Adventist Church, you can do that also.

And that same email, patrice living.live, is the email to use to be able to do that. And Pastor Myers will baptize you. So that's very exciting as well. So that's the email to be able to become a member for all the um the the three different uh ways to become a member. If you are wanting to have an office meeting with Pastor Meyers, you use that same email. Patrice at living.live and she will help you schedule an appointment with Pastor Meyers. We are asking that if you are watching on power of the lamb YouTube channel that you would please go to my living mana YouTube channel and click subscribe and like.

We are trying to grow our presence the living mana um presence on um YouTube. And so if you would go again and press like and subscribe that would be greatly appreciated. If you have prayer requests um our prayer team is very active and so these are the ways that you can uh let our prayer give your prayer request to our prayer team. You can email pray living manana.urch. If you will join, if you've joined Mighty Networks, you can put your prayer request on the prayer wall or you can text pray for to that 855 number and our prayer team will pray for your request until your prayer request is answered, however God is answering uh that request.

And then we would love to hear the testimony of how God answered your prayer and you can send it into that same email prayer. church and then Sister Amra can read your testimony of answered prayer on Sabbath morning during the I say Sabbath morning like we're just at a local church. So on Sabbath, whatever time zone that is for you. Um and she'll be able to read that testimony of what God has done for you. I just want to make another announcement about the convocation that we were planning in October.

Um that specific convocation has been cancelled but we are uh working and beginning to plan something else. It is still something that we are going to be able to gather and fellowship but we will also be doing service together in uh the city and area that we go to. So you're not so please stay tuned for more information about the event that is going to be put together. Um so that you can we'd love to see you so you can be there. Also you guys saw at Sabbath school we had we we had two guest the leaders of Hangouts and Hangouts is a new ministry that Living Mana Church is starting and it's just so that you can have more fellowship together.

And if you saw uh the programming uh this morning um or this after today our first program it's morning afternoon it's all it might be the night time in some areas but during our first program we had uh Nicole and Takara on and they were sharing about the what Hangouts is going to be like and it's just to worship have fun to get to know each other be better and it's just like what it says to hang out and do Christian fellowship uh in a small group space. So you don't there's you don't have to bring anything just yourself.

Um and just it's going to be great. So um the first information setting I'm sorry session about hangouts is Sunday, June 29th uh at 700 p.m. Central time. And so if you're wanting to be a a Hangouts host or leader, um definitely want you to come to that. So you can scan the QR code there and uh you can also email at hangoutsman.urch if you are interested wanting to help out and to be involved. We would love to have you be involved with hangouts because it's a great new ministry. Also wanted to remind you guys of the uh prayer online the power line.

It has been amazing. Um that's on YouTube every um every week at 6:30 p.m. Central. And again, this is where you can tune in and they the prayer team, the prayer leaders are praying for you in real time. So, you put in your request and they're going to pray and you can invite your friends and family and co-workers, whoever to come and tune in and say, "Hey, if you're needing special prayer, this is a a place where they will pray for you right there on the spot." So, we definitely want to get the word out about the power line and would love to have um you there, your friends, your family, your co-workers, just spread the word that this is happening.

Just wanted to remind all of you that mental health Monday is now taking a summer break. We had our uh grand finale program la this past Monday. But do not fear, we will uh be sharing some of the past programs um that we have done because we've been here for three years now. But the past some of the past programs, some of the best of the past programs, I think all the programs are good, but the best ones we are going to be reairing them throughout the summer. So you guys can still because many of you may not have seen them live or maybe have never gone back to see them and there's some really good mental health information and programs that Dr.

White and myself have done. So we are taking uh a break from the lives but there will still be programming going uh for mental health mon Monday. Now true health Tuesday is not taking a break and there was just an amazing program that Dr. Maria Jose Humel did and that's on the poison of sugar. My family calls me the sugar police. So I love that program. Um so please if you didn't see it, please go back because it's so important to know about what sugar is doing uh to your body. And so uh yeah, and that's for True Health uh Tuesday.

And they're again they're not taking a break and they uh will be here. they will be here. Not she does it every other week. So she she will uh Dr. Hume will be here um in two weeks because she just did it this week. So you're not going to want to miss that. Also, this is a reminder that afterlow and that's the date it moved, but it has moved. So our afterlow is no longer on Alter Live, but is on Mighty Networks. That's why you need to download Mighty Networks, guys. Because if you want to be a part of the afterglow and you want to just fellowship with LMOC members and viewing audience after the sermon, then you're not you're going to have to download Mighty Networks.

And what's so great about the afterglow is it is the church uh membership and family and the viewing audience coming together just to discuss uh their thoughts and and what they got from Sabbath school, what they got from the sermon. And it's just a great time to fellowship. A lot of times there's there's prayers, there's singing, there's uh just testimonies. It's a great time to fellowship. So, right after the sermon is over, you can go to the afterglow on mighty networks. Also, just want to remind you guys about living mana global.

And living mana global is where we go into all the world and the languages of the world. And we are just so happy that we have uh the technology to be able to do that. And I just want to show you once again what that looks like. So please take a listen. We again we're so thankful for LMLC global because that helps us to go into all the world speaking the languages of the world and right now we we are in seven languages. We want to grow that. Um so continue to think of Eloc Global when you are um thinking about your giving to Living Manage Church because it helps us to be able to uh bring more languages on board.

So we are just again so very thankful that we can do that. And if please go check out LMLC Global and see if the the seven if one of the seven languages or more than one um is um in a language that you can share with someone that you know and it might be helpful to be able to hear Pastor Meyer's sermons in their native uh language, then please share share it with them. um and share on your social media if you are connected to a community that speaks that language. So we are just again so thankful to be able to have that technology to be able to do that.

And if you would like to continue or to start giving to Living Matter Church, just want to let you know how you can do that. Um you can do this online by going to adventistgiving.org. That's adventgiving.org or and you click in the right hand corner and a virtual tithe envelope will come drop down and you will be able to give your tithe which goes to the Northeastern Conference because this is our church living church is a member of the North Eastern Conference and and that um when you give your tithe that helps to support the conference and the worldwide 7th Day Adventist Church.

when you give to our local church budget, it helps to um support Living Mana Church and the different all the many different things that we do. Um and then there's even a section for the benevolence fund which you can um give there that helps us to support uh people when they are um asking for assistance um for for various things when they are in need. Um and there are so many other areas that you can give to. If you're not wanting to give online, you can simply send a check in to Living Mana Church.

And there's the address there on your screen. We just ask that you please put a little note to let us know uh where you would like uh your funds to go. How much is for tithe, how much is for offering, benevolence fund or other areas that Living Mana Church supports. So that's how you can continue to give or start giving to support Living Mana Church. And again, we're so thankful to all of you that give and support uh Living Manage Church, not just through your financial gifts, but also through your prayers, through showing up each week uh by putting it on your social media, by talking about Living Manage Church with friends and family.

It is because of you that helps this church to continue uh to go and we are just thankful for God for giving us uh this mission to to start this church. said it was really it was it was as we started by faith because this had never been done before and God has grown it into what it is now. But he is continuing to grow this church and uh just giving us wisdom on how to on what steps we need to take next. And so we just um continue to ask that you pray for Living Mana Church and our and the leadership that we will make the right decisions that God wants us to make.

So again, we are just so thankful for for you and for your presence and for your giving. And we're thankful to God. And so I just want to say give a prayer of thanksgiving to him, thanking him for all his many blessings. So please bow your heads with me as we pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, just want to thank you uh for all that you do for Living Mana Church. Just want to thank you for all the volunteers, Lord. All everyone who supports this church and and makes it work. Lord, it's not one person. It is everyone.

This is all hands on deck. And we've been so blessed by so many to make this church work. And we're just so thankful uh from the bottom of our hearts. And most important, we're so thankful to you, God, for just bringing this all together. Lord, I know many are here in church, but they have had a hard week. Some have had a hard week. They have had financial struggles. Uh some have had marital struggles, parenting struggles, health struggles, Lord. There's so many things that we go through on this earth, Lord.

And we know that even when it doesn't look okay, that you, like my shirt says, you have a plan. And so, we just have to trust you and you give us that peace. And so Lord, I pray for all the marriages, all everyone who's going through health issues, um the parents who are trying to parent their children, Lord, for um financial issues that people are having. Lord, I pray for all of that. And I ask that you will um just answer their prayers and bless them in the areas that they are needing to be blessed.

Lord, I pray for Pastor Meyers and I just ask that he will be filled with the Holy Spirit and whatever the message that you have given him today will be a blessing to all of us. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. A father, it's more than a title. It's a calling. A high and holy assignment, a gift from God. A father is a protector, a provider, a quiet strength when storms roll in. He leads not just with words, but by example, a living lesson of patience, integrity, and grace. He teaches and he listens.

He learns alongside us. He doesn't just show up, he stands firm. In a world full of noise, he's the steady voice of truth. In a world that runs, he walks beside us. A father is a hero in the eyes of his children and a gift in the eyes of God. Fatherhood is a precious opportunity and a divine responsibility. Thank you, dads, for embracing your calling, for being the hands and heart of the father above. We honor you today. Happy Father's Day. I've heard a thousand stories of what they think you're like, but I've heard the tender whisper of love and the dead of night Can't you tell me that you're pleased and that I'm never alone.

You're a good good father. It's who you are. It's who you are. It's who you are. And I'm loved by you. It's who I am. I seen many searching for answers far and wide. But I know we're all searching for answers. Only you proide. Yes. to know just what we need before we we say your word. You are perfect in all your ways. You are perfect in all your ways to us. Love so uneniable. I I can hardly speak. Peace so unexplainable. I I can hardly think as you call me. Deeper still as you call me. Deeper still into love.

Love. Sing that again. You are perfect in all of your ways. Yes, you are perfect in all of your ways. Jesus, you are perfect in all of your ways to us. at Living Mana, we bear each other's burdens. When you need support or prayer, when you're feeling discouraged or alone or anxious, you don't have to face life struggles alone. Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace that that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in our time of need. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit.

Amen. Amen. Let's try again. Take two. Greetings, saints of the most high. Isn't it wonderful that we serve a God of second chances? I mean, right. We serve the God of And it's another thing. It's great that it's Sabbath all day. Okay. So, happy Sabbath, saints of the most high God. Welcome to another edition of Living Manners Prayer and Praise Time. I am here with my lovely bride Amra as always. And I'm going to tell you what, it doesn't matter what happens. Our God is still on the throne. All right?

And uh we're ready to give him praise. Amen. And so, you know what? We I love y'all. I saw you guys. You said, you know, let's pray. I saw the warriors, living man of warriors in the chat, members in the chat. Let's pray. That's right. Look, I thank God that I'm just that's just it now. You know, I'm not expecting anything to just go smoothly ever. He's a God of doovers. The Bible says through much tribulation shall we enter into the kingdom, right? So believe that. That's just how it is, right?

And we are we are spiritual stormtroopers, beloved. We're either in the middle of a storm or we coming out of one storm heading into another. That's just our existence. So, praise God for being so wonderful, being so faithful, and for helping us to get it together. I have no idea what that was about. I honestly don't. Everything Everything was connected. Everything's hooked up. But we're learning. Amen. Together. Together. So, look, when we heard that worship song, Good Father, it reminded me of made me think about something.

Can we get together, saints of the most high God, and if you will, just put it in the chat. Happy Father's Day, Lord. To him, the greatest father of all. God, we give you praise today. Happy Father's Day to you. The most incredible Father there ever was and ever will be. Wonderful Lord. Wonderful God. You know, um it's because of our good good father in heaven that I was able to stand by my father uh uh at his on his deathbed. Amar was there with me. Saw my father take his last breath. And you know, my father was never there for me.

He was very abusive and uh a lot of pain, a lot of hurt. But it was because of the love of our father that I was able to look at him and tell him that I loved him in his last breaths. I remember when we disconnected the life support and my father heard my voice for the first time in a long time and all of his vitals went up. We were watching that. We were like, "Oh Lord, what's going on?" But it was the love of God. Tear came down. Remember that? Yeah, I remember that. And so all of you who um today are wishing happy father's day, look, remember we serve the greatest father of all and he is he's a wonderful miracle working, life-changing father.

See you all there in the chat and all you earthly fathers. Happy Father's Day to you. Happy Father's Day, pastor. Definitely amazing father and spiritual father. Thank you so much, brother. Uh truly do love you. And uh um uh he sometimes reminds me that he tells me I remind him of his big brother. But uh man, you a spiritual father and God has made you that. And I and I honor and respect you in that regard. And all the other fathers of living mana love y'all too. Thank you so much. Uh first timers Terry Parker has her nephew Tommy here.

Tommy, welcome brother. Hope you're still watching. Thank you for joining us for the huddle. We loved you this morning. Hello love. Good to see you here with us. Uh, we are honored by your presence. And T, T, it's your first time. I remember you here from the deep south. I'm from the south, too. I've lost my accent. I thought folk were laughing at me when I first came out here. I said, "Look, I got to I got to You can turn it on though. Yeah, when necessary." Okay. So, but uh thank the Lord for y'all first timers joining us.

We love y'all. And uh thank thank God for y'all being here with us. I also want to uh really give uh h a praise to God for this hangout ministry that we saw Sister Takara and Nicole and we're praying for y'all. We'll continue to pray for y'all. That is breach mending ministry because as you remember from Nehemiah Nehemiah chapter 4 verse 19, everybody needs to go look that up. When Nehemiah told him that the work is great and we're separated one from another on the wall. There are many of us laboring in the Lord's vineyard and we're on the wall, but yet there are breaches amongst us that need to be repaired.

We need to be mending these breaches. And I don't want to get into that too deeply right now, but thank God for a ministry like that. And what we're seeing happening in our special ops teams, if you haven't been a part of a special ops team, and I know many of you watching probably haven't had an opportunity to, let me tell you, there is a chemistry and there is a bond and amazing family connection on these ops team. We have the vision and pastor certainly has the vision that we want to get every member in living mana in at least three to four member team praying for one another and and just you know laboring together and loving on each other and bonding till we have this whole church community bonded together and you know not just saying you know we have the same doctrines we go to the same church and stuff but to really get to know one another and really love one another and really to share in one another's burdens.

That's our vision for this ministry. Form true friendships and relationships. We are going to be spending eternity together. So that's right. Let's get to know each other here. Right. That's right. And I'm a social butterfly. I love that people. So I am so looking forward to this. You know ministry. Amber's one of these people that she's never met somebody that's not a friend. I'm just like, is everybody a friend? He teases me all the time. Look, strangers are just friends I haven't met yet. How's that?

That's interesting. I like that question. Praise God. And I want to say, brother Tennessee, you know, you said that this ministry is a blessing to to us. But listen, brother. Never doubt it for one minute. You are a blessing, my brother. God bless you. Stand strong in the faith. continue to continue to minister and encourage and to put those uh thought-provoking challenging questions in the chat. We love that. Love that my man. I wanted to say thank you to pastor and sister Atante for, you know, being loving and sensitive and courageous enough to address those topics like we did today on immigration.

And I I man beautifully handled. pastor is such a progressive thinker and uh I learned so much and I'm so inspired by the approach they take to things and uh biblical approach and that's we want to learn to think biblically and I love the way pastor had us thinking through the biblical process to come to the conclusions that we need to come to that we can live with you know and that we can hang on to and then helps us to understand everything that's going on in the world in the biblical perspective it makes sense and when it doesn't make sense to us there's a whole lot of anxiety And so for those of you who may be experiencing anxiety because you may be directly affected by these immigration issues or you may know someone that is, we know people who are and um we want to let you know that we are aware.

We love you. We're praying for you and those of you who are affected by all this other noise going on. There's a lot going on in the world right now. But I tell you, when we learn to think through it biblically and put it in the biblical perspective, there is a peace. Jesus says, "My peace I live with you, not the peace that the world gives you. The peace I give you, the world cannot take that peace away. It is a supernatural peace beyond understanding when we put our faith in the word of the living God, in God himself.

And so, we want to encourage you today. Uh, stand strong. We we're praying for you that God will lead you into a deeper understanding of his word. So, you'll have that peace. You can have that peace no matter what's going on. And so, just want to say this. I know I'm talking a little bit more than I wanted to. Hey Christy in South Carolina, I wanted to shout you out, my sister. love you back there at home. Uh, keep hanging strong and keep praying. But I did want to say this, saints. No matter what's going on, even no matter how much noise there is in the world, we're still called to give the good news of the gospel.

Amen. We're still called to share the good news. We're still called to be salt. We're still called to be light. And that is why it's so important that when Pastor Natante and all of us start talking about really getting a hold of God like for real for real get a hold of him, then we can still and that's the only way to do what we've been called to do with all of the stuff that's going on. We believe that the enemy wants us telling his news stories rather than telling the good news story. And so, uh, get a hold of the supernatural power of God and let's continue to declare he's on the throne no matter what's going on.

Can we say amen? Hallelujah. Well, that's the tagline for the power line. That's right. If y'all haven't been to the power line yet on Wednesdays, please join us. Please join us for the power line. And by the way, the power line is not just what you get on and have prayer requests going back and forth. It's an evangelistic outreach tool that all of the church can get involved with. He says, "Well, how?" Get that link and share that link with somebody you know or maybe somebody you don't know. might be somebody in your local supermarket or at your hospital, at your convolescent home.

Maybe somebody just out there that you run into in in your community. Uh share the link and say, "Hey, what can I pray for you?" We found that during co I don't want to go too far here, but we found that during co the concept of digital evangelism really took off just by simply saying through prayer evangelism, hey, can I pray for you? Yeah. And when through prayer, we build meaningful relationships. Once we build those meaningful relationships, you can invite people in and say, "Hey, come see what we're about.

Come see who we are. Come see what we're building. Join us for church. You know, join us on Monday. Join us on Tuesday. Join us on Wednesday. Join us on any day of the week. We have something going on. Friday, Revelation, Bible study, just on and on and on and on. So, we can keep going, but uh God, we we we just want to say we love y'all. We thank God for you. Again, it is an honor and a privilege. family, let's stick together and let's get this work done in Jesus name. Amen. All right, praise report time.

Praise report time. Now, before I share the praise reports, which we have quite a few today, praise God. Just a reminder, if you have a prayer request or a praise report or you would like to join the prayer team or a special ops prayer team under the prayer team umbrella, please send an email to pray livingmana.urch. If you would like to request a special ops prayer team for yourself or a loved one, please send an email to spec ops. That's s pops If you would like to join the women's ministry on mighty networks, please send an email to women at livingmana.urch.

And finally, if you would like to join the men's ministry, please send an email to sevenloaves. That's s ven l o a velmana.urch. Amen. All right, praise report number one coming from Shaunene Wright. 22year-old Casey, my son Joseph and daughter-in-law Tiffany's friend whom we were praying for after his motorcycle accident, is recovering better than expected. Praise God. He is able to walk now and there is no severe brain damage. Joseph said, "Thank you from all the families involved. Loc prayer warriors, prayers are appreciated.

Praise God. Amen. From Olivia, blessings to you all. VBS is doing well. Some hiccups, but God came through with us. Praise God for the commitment from the parents and children, the leaders and volunteers. Truly, he is a God of miracles. Overall, the children are learning that God is real and can be trusted. Thank you for your prayers and please continue to keep us in your prayers. from Pauline Goodine. Thank you family for all your prayers. The court dismissed my case. Praise the Lord. I do have the option to counter sue.

Please pray with me for the Lord to guide me on what he will have me to do. Amen. Thanks family. And then um she submitted another this was the original prayer. Please pray for Mr. Ellis. He is asking for prayer for the mass on his bladder that uh that it will not be cancerous. He is also struggling to forgive himself for what he has done to his wife. In the praise report, the mass is not cancerous. Praise Amen. from sungazing. I believe a couple of these are actually praise reports from the power line last Wednesday.

They are praise report for God. Uh, craving time out so I can study. Haven't been working much this last month. He allowed me to spend Thursday night through Friday with my family. From Diane Martinez, praise report. I went to do a stress test on Tuesday and I want to praise God for receiving good news. Everything was good. from Terry Parker. Original prayer request was, "Please pray for John Depazinski and his wife Michelle. John suffered a massive stroke Wednesday night and is on a ventilator.

Michelle underwent an extensive back surgery recently. Pray for God's will and praise him for the strong faith they both have. Pray the Holy Spirit fills them with overflowing strength, endurance, peace, comfort, and healing. I thank God for the support they have from family, friends, neighbors, and the church in Jesus' powerful name. Amen. Also asking prayer for my daughter Serena that she can get in to see the ENT, that's the ear, nose, and throat specialist, and get her hearing aids sent off for repair by June 30th.

Complicated issues with insurance provider. Pray knowing the Holy Spirit will untangle this mess. Amen. And the update. Hello. I have praise reports to share with our family. First, John passed peacefully Saturday evening. Michelle is leaning into her faith and we are all trusting God for his promises knowing John entered God's rest and we will see him soon and very soon. Serena has an appointment this week to get her hearing aid repaired. Amen and amen. God is so good to give wonderful prayer warriors and to answer us so quickly.

Have a beautiful week with many God sightings from Charlotte Stanforth. Praise report. My broken bones are healing and the doctors say surgeries are not necessary. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Amen. Amen. And finally, from Renee Hallebertton, my daughter Madison is home from the hospital after spending a month and a week there. That's a long time to be in the hospital. Please continue to keep us in prayer because she is still healing and the work is not done. Amen. You know what? I remember I remember a lot of these um I remember a lot of these these prayer requests.

These praise reports were prayer requests and I remember them from um the power line and some from here. And so we want to thank y'all. You know, uh, I see something in the chat and the Lord just keep bringing it to my eye and that's you, Sister Ramona. You know, Ramona, you're such a a a steadfast and a consistent witness and encouragement. I want to I just really want to from my heart today say really thank you, Sister Ramona. You know, uh, sometimes you'll see someone in the church that the Lord has placed and, you know, unassuming, not really loud, don't hear a lot from, but, you see them consistently, always being an encouragement and a witness, and I want to thank you for that, Sister Ramona.

You are a blessing. We see you this morning. I wanted to send that shout out from my heart to you. I just also want to thank everyone who is submitting their praise reports. I think it's so encouraging and such a blessing to hear how God is answering. I mean, he answers in his in his timing. Sometimes it's not always what we think it's going to look like, but um it's just such a huge encouragement and hope in our own struggles when we see how the Lord is working through other people's lives. So, please keep submitting them, keep bringing in those praise reports, and we love sharing them with you.

Amen. So, don't lose hope. I mean, when he takes you into a storm and brings you out on the other side, I mean, you're looking at Psalm 107:es 21-31. That's the beginning of a storm that God himself commanded the stormy winds and wave to come up. And then when they were at their wits end and called out to him, he commanded the storm to be a calm. God is provoking a response out of us and using us to be a witness to others and a testimony to others. So, thank you so much again, Sister Ramona. I see you in there just encouraging everybody else, but uh certainly an encouragement to me.

So, be encouraging. Bless my sister. Also want to remember Sister Gigi is literally working under fire. Um and we want to keep her as a church, as a body. This is our little sister, you know, and uh we love her. She's uh our Swiss Army knife doing a little bit of everything here at Living Mana and uh right now working. She's working today, you know, uh in the in the Lord's vineyard. But let's let's let's together pray for her that God will keep her and protect her. And we know he will. He will do that.

Uh she she's right now in Minnesota doing her internship there. But uh uh we want to we want to seriously every day do keep her surrounded with prayer and the love of God uh because she is an absolute blessing to her to all of us. So um but when we're getting ready to go into prayer right now and um and we're going to bring up one of our special prayer warriors who we love is always I mean just as busy as she can be, always working, always serving. And so as she gets ready to come, I just want to say only truth.

I see that powerful testimony you put there in the chat said, "The Lord is in total control. He knows the the the temporal trials we are going through on this planet." 2 Corinthians 4:17. Amen. Our light affliction which is but for a moment. The Bible says it workketh the far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory while we look not at the things which are seen but at the things which are not seen. Thank you for sharing that word. That's a powerful word right there. Encourage everybody. Go read 2 Corinthians chapter 4.

It's beautiful, beautiful revelation. And so we want to bring up right now our beloved uh warette, sister Annette Rivas, and she's going to lead and let him use you, sis. Hi, Annette. Hello. Hello, everyone. Blessings, living mana. Such a pleasure to be here. Blessing to have you, sister. Amen. Amen. So, um, with that being said, I just want to continue to encourage everyone to continue to put your prayer requests in the chat. Um, I did, uh, grab as many as I could up until just a few minutes ago.

Um, and just rest assure if you don't hear your prayer requests being prayed over live. Trust me, we have our um, prayer warriors praying over them live there in the chats. And uh we do collect every single prayer request and we do pray over them throughout the whole week. Um so and and and it's beautiful to see these praise reports because it it just shows us how beautiful our God is and how he um listens and answers our prayers. So it's always a privilege to to be here and pray alongside you all.

Amen. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we humbly come to your throne of grace, Lord, asking for forgiveness of sin, Lord, asking that you cover us with the blood of Jesus and make us worthy to be in your presence at this very moment, Lord. Lord, as we intercede on behalf of our brothers and sisters, Lord, we just thank you for this privilege that you give us that we we have we can access you 24/7, Lord, and we can come to your throne of grace on behalf of our brothers and sisters. Lord, at this very moment, I would like to lift up my dear sister Ashlin Ashley Owens.

Lord, she put prayers requests in the chat. Um her first prayer request was praying for safety for all those at pro that are protesting today that all will be um nonviolent and peaceful Lord and uh we touch and pray in agreement with our sister in this request Lord. We know that our uh country right now is um a bit divided, Lord, and um so many people are trying to um just voice their concerns um during these protests. And so we just pray, Lord, that you continue to be with our country and all of these uh peaceful protesters, Lord, that they can continue to just express their concerns and um be heard accordingly, Lord.

and um may you allow that um negative feelings of of um of anger or violence to to be put away and put aside during these these times of peaceful protest. We're praying, heavenly father, that you just allow everyone to be able to just get along and um be able to share their opinions without having um having to be attacked, Lord. And so we just pray, heavenly father, that you continue to be with with all of the people that are um doing um demonstrations this week. Lord, may your holy spirit just be amongst the crowds, Lord, and just remain and keep the peace, Lord, as much as possible.

We also want to continue to pray, Lord. Um she also requested for prayer for people and families in Iran and Israel right now. Many are waking up to horror, horror and destruction. War is not the answer. We pray for the peace only the Lord can give. Lord and and that is true. Lord, we have a few people asking for prayer on behalf of Israel and what is going on in the Middle East. Um Lord, we pray that you continue to to just lead out in in um in these areas, Lord. That you protect the innocent. Um Lord, we we know that violence is not the answer.

Lord, you called us to love one another and and um be at peace with one another, Lord, and and to treat one another as we would like to be treated. And so we just ask heavenly father that you continue to just be amongst um the leaders of these countries that you can reveal to them um the error lord of of taking these types of tactics Lord and and how it affects um not only the people in their countries but it also affects people all around the world Lord. It it just brings a lot of confusion and um nervousness and and chaos, Lord.

And we pray that you just continue to work it out, Lord, on behalf of of these countries and the people that are living in these countries, Lord. Keep them safe. Uh send your angels to a camp around your people, Lord, and and help them, Lord. Give them a way out, Lord. We continue to also pray for our sister Ashley's other prayer requests that she did not put in the prayer chat, Lord, but that we have been praying over. So we continue to lift up her health, her family, her children, Lord, her finances.

Continue continuing to ask, Lord, that you cover her, Lord, and her whole family. You know the end from the beginning, Lord. And so we just lift up our dear sister Ashley and her family to your throne. Asking, Lord, that you continue to work work it all out for their good, Lord. Um continuing to also pray, Lord, for Renee, Lord. She um Oh, it was her praise report, Lord. We uh sister Amra just um mentioned her praise report, Lord. And so we thank you, Lord, that you have been coming through for our dear sister Rene's daughter and we continue to pray, Lord, that you continue to allow her health to um get better and um that you lead um the family to the remedies and the doctors, Lord, that they are needing to to speak with to continue in this health journey that you have them in, Lord.

But at least they see, Lord, your hand at work. They see that you are ordering their steps and that you are allowing everything to fall into place on behalf of their daughter and her health. And so we praise you and thank you for that. Lord, we continue to pray for um um sister Gigi. Lord, she put a prayer request for our dear sister Jennifer Booth for her health, specifically her blood sugar levels. Lord, we praise you and thank you for our dear sister Jennifer. Lord, a lot of people don't know, but she works fervently behind the screens, Lord, here in Living Mana.

Our sister is one of the main ones that helps that helps out in the lights team. And um and she she works very hard, Lord. And we just praise you and thank you for our sister Jennifer, Lord. Um you recently came through also for our dear sister Jennifer's mom, and we praise you and thank you for that. Um we continue to put Sister Jennifer's health in your hands, Lord. Asking that you um continue to lead and guide her, Lord, to to the doctors that will help her, Lord, um in regulating her uh blood sugars and helping her and and um and each area of her health, Lord.

You know the end from the beginning. This is just part of it, Lord. And we just know Lord that you are a good father and that you are um working it out also for our sister's good and you are leading and guiding her and bringing healing to her. Lord, thank you for that. Continue to bless her in this health journey that you have her in. Lord, we also continue to pray for our dear sister Gigi, Lord, and and um the victims as well of the Minnesota and the families that are that were victims in the shooting there, Lord, and the protesting going on there as well, Lord.

uh the world Lord we are we can see heavenly father that your second coming is just so very close. You know you tell us in your word Lord that as soon as we see the the the leaves changing color we know that your second coming is is near and and we see Lord we can see the changes. We can feel it Lord our our our souls tells us that we are needing to be preparing for that second coming. And so we just ask heavenly father that you know um as all of these things that you have already prophesied that we're to happen in these last days Lord that you keep us gired up in you that you continue to help each and every one of us uh to be in your will and to do our part Lord.

You have created us for such a time as this. And so we pray heavenly father that you continue to use us and um and help us Lord do your will for such a time as this. be with all of the victims, Lord. The the the senators, the governors, the the people affected, Lord, with this this um attack there in Minnesota. You know them. Be with their families, the people that are grieving at this time, Lord. Um may you just help them, Lord. If they don't know you, Lord, we're pleading the merits of the blood of Jesus over their lives that you can remove the veils from their eyes, the veils that the enemy has placed there to keep them blinded and doing things that are against your will.

May you just remove it Lord and may you allow them to see um the damage that they are doing Lord and and just be with this situation altogether heavenly father our dear sister Sharon Fay shared a Bible verse Matthew 5:9 that says blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God and that's what we're seeking Lord we're wanting to keep the peace we're wanting to to um to show your light and your love to the world Lord so continue to be with these um with these demonstrations and all of the people affected.

Uh we continue to pray over Sister um Leela Peterson. Lord, she asks in her prayer request, continue to pray for us to be able to move to Idaho and for the Holy Spirit to anoint Wes Wes's lips as he has Bible studies with the coworker over Daniel and Revelation. Lord, what a beautiful prayer request, Lord. And we've been praying for our sister for quite a bit of time already with this move, Lord. and we praise you and thank you, Lord, that you um are keeping it in her mind and her heart to continue to pray over the the move to Idaho as human beings.

Lord, it is easy for us to just make up our mind and make our own decisions and do things, Lord, without even consulting you. And our sister and our brother are requesting, Lord, for guidance and for for you to open the doors in order for them to be able to make this move, Lord, to Idaho. And so if it's in your will for them to do that, Lord, we continue to pray, Lord, that you align everything up on their behalf so that they are able to make that move accordingly, Lord. And may it be in your perfect timing.

May you continue to just give them peace and knowing that you are aligning everything up and um and that you will signal them when it is time for them to do the move, Lord. and um and if it's even in your will to for them to move, Lord, may you just make it as clear as day for them, Lord, for these decisions in these last days, Lord. And be with Wes, Lord. It's an important task that he is taking on here, speaking to his coworker about your word and about the things that are going on in Revelation and in Daniel.

So we continue to ask Lord that you empty west of self and that you can fill him with your holy spirit Lord so that everything that he says and does be according to your will as he is leading others to you heavenly father help him be that light and use him mightily heavenly father um Lord we continue to also pray for sister Jodia Mccclure she's asking for prayer um she believes um she is um she has blood poisoning Lord, and uh you know what's going on with our dear sister Jod. Heavenly Father, um you know what her body is reacting to and so we pray heavenly father that you allow the medical staff that is attending to her or if she hasn't gone to the doctor that you may lead and guide her to um the doctors that will help her with this situation that she is going through with her blood and that that poisoning.

Lord, um sometimes, you know, lead can we can eat a a a great amount of lead and it it can actually make us sick, Lord. And so, whatever it is that is causing her to feel feel ill, Lord, may you reveal it to her and may you just put your healing hand over her body and help her recover from this from this um illness that she is going through. Uh Lord, we we want to also pray for our dear sister Grace and our dear sister Ruth. They both just put in the prayer I mean in the chat needed prayer please.

And so Lord, you know Sister Grace and you know Sister Ruth, you know the end from the beginning. You created them for such a time as this Lord. And so we pray heavenly father that you be with each individual situation that they're dealing with. That you um may you lead and guide them Lord to what it is that you would have them do in these situations. May you bless their finances, their health, Lord, um their uh spiritual walk with you. Um and every area, Lord, that they're lacking. May you just fill it for them, heavenly father.

We just ask, heavenly father, that you continue to lead and guide them and their families. We're pleading the merits of the blood of Jesus over both of them. And Lord, we also pray for brother Tennessee. Um he is asking prayer that the preachers in our church will not take advantage of the fears of members in their church to capitalize for self gain. Um and heavenly father Lord we we we we know heavenly father that as humans sometimes when we put self in in place we tend to do things that are against your will.

And so that's what we're praying against for each leader all over our conferences all over our um not only locally, Lord, but worldwide. Um Lord, may you continue to allow each of the people that have heard your calling and taken the stand to preach as pastors, Lord, or as leaders in churches that you continue to remind them, Lord, that it is not within themselves to make decisions, but it's it's through your Holy Spirit. Um, and so may you just continue to allow them to put self aside and humble themselves to allow your Holy Spirit to be the one uh leading and guiding out in their churches, Lord, and in the conferences, Lord.

Um, and we just ask a special prayer, Lord, of covering over all our pastors, Lord, because they are they are literally the ones in in the front lines, Lord. They get targeted so much and um get attacked. And so we just pray, heavenly father, that you continue to just lead and guide these pastors, that you continue to remove those, Lord, that aren't supposed to be leading your churches. Remove them from those positions, Lord, so that they don't lead more people astray, Lord. And um just protect, heavenly father, those that are being sincere and faithful to you and give them that strength and perseverance that they're needing for such a time as this, Lord.

Um Lord, we we also continue to pray for um faith. Faith mentions um pray for peace over Israel and the entire neighborhood regions, for protection, for open hearts in the in this shakening that many would seek the hope found in Jesus, Lord. And so we do pray Lord that even during these times of of of uncertainty and grief and war Lord um that more and more people can come to the realization Lord that living a life here in this world without you is not it's not a life worth living Lord you know this peace that surpasses all understanding it's the only thing that can get us through these trials that we're going through Lord and so that's our prayer for each individual that is you know going through these these um trials in and in and war areas, Lord, that they may come to know you, Lord, so that they can live a life knowing that no matter what happens in their surroundings, that you have them and that it it's all temporary.

All of the things that are going through um that we're going through now are all temporary and we have something to look forward to, which is a a a everlasting, loving, peaceful life alongside you, Lord. And and so continue to just remind everyone, Lord, and and help those that don't know to come into that um realization of of um of that everlasting life that you are offering us, Lord. And may they take full advantage and may they be able to um allow you, Lord, to live in their hearts and and show them that peace that surpasses all understanding.

Continue to just be with everyone that is in these war areas. Lord, comfort them, Lord. Shield them and help them, Lord. A lot of them are just, you know, they're they have they they just need you, Lord. They need you and your peace and and comfort, Lord. And so, we just pray that you um that you continue to just be with them, each each person, Lord, that is going through these trials. Um Lord, we're praying for also um Christy. She says, um, Christy asks for prayer for the prayer warriors to pray.

Please pray for Selena who lost her husband due to cancer. Also pray for our families, friends, churches, country, and leaders. Pray that the ongoing wars will not become global, Lord. And so we touch and pray in agreement with Christie, Lord. And we're we're lifting up Selena, Lord, that um just recently widowed, Lord, and you know the situation there. We have so many, Lord, that have lost loved ones, Lord. We have so many single mothers out there, Lord, that will be celebrating mother and father's day without their better half and and the father of their children alongside them.

And so, we just want to say a special prayer for them, heavenly father, that your comfort may um emerge them um during this time of grief. May you um may you just pour down love and peace and um understanding over them Lord and help them Lord during this time. It is a difficult time heavenly father. And so we just pray that you continue to just lead and guide them, protect them and and comfort them Lord in these times. be with um um with Selena as she, you know, is going through this griefing process um losing her spouse uh due to cancer and and be with all of the people that are going through the same thing as she is.

Heavenly Father, we just pray that that your Holy Spirit, which is the the comforter, Lord, to comfort them during these times. Heavenly Father. Um and also um as we prayed before, continue to be with with our churches, our families, Lord, our loved ones. Um and and continue to lead in each area. Heavenly Father, we also want to um lift up Living Faith. Um this is the last prayer request I was able to to pick up, Lord. And living faith is praying is asking for prayer. Uh prayer for my girlfriend and I to be baptized and married Lord.

And what a beautiful prayer that is. What a beautiful request that is that they are trying to do things according to your will Lord. And they are preparing. Um and so Lord we continue to pray that you be with uh living faith. You know you know them by name. You know them by number. You know exactly what they are needing. And so we just pray, heavenly father, that you align everything up, Lord, as they're seeking to do your will and um you know, taking the steps to be able to um be married, Lord, and be one in you.

And so we just pray over them, asking that you evenly yoke them and that they can be a power couple for your honor and your glory to further your kingdom for such a time as this, Lord. and any prayers, Lord, that we uh I wasn't able to um find or or attach to this prayer request that I'm reading over right now. Lord, I just the ones that weren't even typed in the chat. Lord, all of those silent prayer requests, Lord, we praying that you continue to work in and through each individual life, Lord.

We're praying that your will may be done in each individual life, Lord, because that is the only way we know that we are um in your will, Lord, is that if we are falling um according and doing things according to your will. And so, Lord, continue to be with everyone, heavenly father, and their and their prayer requests. And we and be with each individual prayer warrior as well, heavenly father. continue to keep us girded up in you and help us do your will for such a time as this. Praising you and thanking you, Lord.

Also praying over Pastor Myers and the sermon that he will be sharing with us today, Lord. May you anoint your his lips, Lord. And may you allow your Holy Spirit to be the one to speak through him, Lord. Prepare the minds and the hearts of all of us, Lord, that are um present. allow the seeds that are planted to fall in good solid and in good uh fertile soil, Lord, so that it can produce much fruit for your honor and glory. We praise you and thank you once again for the privilege of prayer and we humbly request all of these things in the precious name of your son Jesus Christ.

Amen and amen. Amen. Thank you so much, Sister Renee. Beautiful. Amen. Amen. Glory to God. You were not hidden. There's never been a moment you were forgotten. You were not hopeless. Though you have been broken, you're innocent stolen. I hear you whisper underneath your breath. I hear your sos, your sos. I will send out an army to find you in the middle of the darkest night is true. I will rescue you. that cannot be covered over and over. You're not defenseless. I'll be your shelter and I'll be your armor.

I hear you whisper underneath I hear your sos. Yay. Oh, and I will send out an army to find you in the middle of the darkest tonight. It's true. I will resue you. Oh, and I will never stop marching to reach you. In the middle of the hardest fight, it's true. I will rescue you. Oh, I hear the whisper underneath your breath. I hear you whisper, "You have nothing left." Oh, and I will never stop watching to reach you in the middle of the hardest fight. It is true. I will rescue you. Oh, and I will resue you.

Oh, I will rescue as it is written. According how? According as it is written. According as it is suggested. According as it is written. Made up. As it is written. Opinion. As it is written. I warn it. As it is written. As it is written. Unforgiven. You give Bible chapter and verse right now. Heat Amen. Amen. Uh, happy Sabbath Church family. Um, graphics team. Thank you. That was powerful. That was powerful. I want to just again uh welcome everyone to the Living Man online uh church. Today we are going to be getting into the word of God.

you go ahead and put a one in the chat if you are ready to open the word of God today. Uh is going to be a very important um and I think a very timely message. Uh we are going to be getting into the word of God. This is going to be a study. This is going to be a study of the word of God. So, we're going to be going line upon line, precept upon precept, and uh we're going to be going very deep into the scriptures today, but we're going to illustrate, I'm going to demonstrate something from the word of God that I think is absolutely crucial uh in light of the previous two messages that um that I shared this past Sabbath and the Sabbath before.

So, with that said, we're going to go ahead and pray and uh get into the word of God. Let's do that now. Heavenly Father, please Lord, speak through me. Speak to your people. And Lord, take once again what is a very complex subject, this theme of the king of the north and the king of the south found in Daniel chapter 11. And Lord, help us to see some very powerful truths from this subject in this message today. as it ties in with the investigative judgment. Lord, speak to us is our prayer in Jesus name.

Amen. Amen. Uh please go ahead and uh before I even begin, I'm going to invite you to hit the like button, hit the share button, let people know that this message on the king of the north and the king of the south is about to begin. And uh invite your people. Invite your people. Share this link. Share. Share. Share. Share. Share. we're going to begin, we're going to begin this message. Uh let's go to the screen. We're going to begin in Daniel chapter 8. and we're going to build step by step to see something absolutely amazing regarding this subject.

But we're going to start in Daniel chapter 8. And again, the title of this message, evangelism, the king of the north and the king of the south. Daniel chapter 8. Daniel chapter 8 beginning with verse 11, the Bible speaks of this uh little horn power. And it describes this little horn power with these words. It says, "Yeah, he magnified himself even to the prince of the host, and by him the daily sacrifice was taken away, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down. And a host was given him against the daily sacrifice by reason of transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground, and it practiced and prospered."

Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that certain saint which spake, How long shall be the vision concerning the daily sacrifice and the transgression of desolation to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trotten underfoot. And he said unto me, unto 2, and 300 days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. We have learned in previous studies that the book of Daniel is written in parallel format. Meaning the prophecies of Daniel that are found in Daniel chapter 2, Daniel chapter 7, Daniel chapter 8, Daniel chapter 9, and Daniel chapter 11 and 12 parallel.

They repeat and enlarge. In Daniel chapter 8, we we see this judgment or this cleansing of the sanctuary and this work that is being done by the little horn. For the purpose of our study today, we want to find the parallel event in Daniel chapter 11, the last prophetic chapter of the Bible. So where in Daniel 11 do we find the parallel of Daniel chapter 8? Do we find the event of the little horn and the casting down of the sanctuary uh and this and this abomination if you will um this transgression of desolation.

And so if we go to Daniel chap 11, we will find the parallel in Daniel 11 and verse 31. Note with me, and arms shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute the sanctuary of strength, and take away and shall take away the daily sacrifice, and they shall place the abomination that maketh desolate. So, let's pause for a second and and let me ask I'm going to ask you to put a five in the chat if you understand if you see the parallel between what we just read in Daniel 8, this little horn polluting the sanctuary, taking away the daily, the uh placing the transgression of desolation, and Daniel 11:31, which describes literally the same event.

arms shall stand on his part. Meaning this little horn will have a military. They shall pollute the sanctuary of strength and take away the daily and place the abomination that maketh desolate. All right. Excellent. So, um, we're on the same page. We're going to keep reading in Daniel 11. So, Daniel 11:32. Notice what the text says. And such as do wickedly against the covenant shall he corrupt by flatteries. But the people that do know their God shall be strong and do exploits. And they that understand among the people shall instruct many.

Yet they shall fall by the sword and by flame and by captivity and by spoil many days. So um note here that in Daniel 11 it goes on to describe the fact that those who do wickedly against the covenant will be corrupted by flatteries. But the people that do know their God shall be strong and do exploits. So who would the people who do know their God, who would those people be in the context of this little horn power? We understand that according to the Bible, this little horn power represents the papacy.

And the papacy particularly during the dark ages. So who would be the people who do know their God that were strong and doing exploits? You might say, "Pastor, that would represent the Protestant reformers particularly during the dark ages." And if you said that, you would be correct. You would be correct. The text goes on to say that they that understand among the people shall instruct many. This is exactly what the Protestant reformers did. Yet they shall fall by the sword and by flame and by captivity and by spoil.

This is exactly what happened with the Protestant reformers. And the Bible says that this this would happen for many days. Now I'm going to ask a question. When or what are these many days? How long would this period of many days be? Let's let's let's see how many of you are following along. this many days in which uh God's people would be would be persecuted by the little horn. We don't need to guess because in Daniel chapter 7 uh Daniel 7 25 the Bible says note with me and he shall speak great words against the most high and shall wear out the saints of the most high and shall think to change times and laws and they shall be given into his hand until a time times and the dividing of times.

So we understand we understand that this many days in Daniel 7:25 is explained to us as the 1,260 days, the period of the dark ages. So what we see in Daniel 11 beginning with verse 31 is a parallel of Daniel chapter 8, this little horn power casting down the sanctuary, persecuting the people of the most high. It's parallel in Daniel 11 begins in verse 31. And we're seeing this parallel clearly. We are seeing this 1260day period clearly. Now I'm going to show you something that you may not have seen before.

So, let's go back to Daniel 11. And now we're going to pick up with verse 34. Notice with me verse 34. And y'all get ready to just be blown away. The text says, "Now when they shall fall, they shall be hoping with a little help, but many shall cleave to them with flatteries. When they shall fall, let me read it again. When they shall fall, they shall be hoping with a little help. That's an interesting phrase. When they shall fall, we've just seen in the previous verse that they would be persecuted for many days, meaning that would culminate with 1798, the 12 1,260 days or prophetic years.

The next test text says when they shall fall they shall be hoping or helped with a little help. Why is this significant? Let's go over to Revelation 12. Revelation chapter 12 beginning with verse 14. The Bible says, "And to the woman, that means the church, were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness into her place, where she is nourished for, guess how long, everybody? A time, times, and half a time from the face of the serpent." Are y'all catching this? This is the same time period here and the same thing being described.

The woman represents the church. She is being persecuted by this power by the serpent, if you will, for 1,260 years. And then the Bible says, "And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood." And now what's that next verse, y'all? Is anybody excited yet? and the earth helped the woman and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth. So I want you to see here the absolutely beautiful parallel in Daniel 11 beginning with verse 31.

Verse 34 when it specifically talks about they shall be open with a little help. that is describing Revelation 12 14-16 where the earth helps the woman particularly towards the end of this period of persecution this 1,260 years. If you're with me so far, y'all go ahead and put a five in the chat. This is going to be a very deep study, but it's going to be a very powerful one. And I just want to make sure that I'm not losing anybody yet because we're going to be to be focusing in on Daniel 11. So, so far we see that in Daniel 11 there is a there is a persecuting power that does the exact thing that is described in Daniel chapter 8.

Daniel 11 goes on to describe the dark ages. He would be persecuted. This power or God's people will be persecuted for many days. We know that that many days is the 1,260 years. And it says when they shall fall, that is being persecuted, they will be hoping with a little help. Oh, that's Daniel 12. That's the end of the 1260 years. Now, now that we are on the same page, I'm going to introduce to you verse 35. So whatever is happening in verse 35 will be after verse 34 after 1798. Please note what the text says.

Let's go Daniel 11 and verse 35. Watch this now y'all. And some of them of understanding shall fall to try them and to make them white even to the time of the end because it is yet for a time appointed. Can y'all tell me what Daniel 11 and verse 35 is talking about? Some of them have understanding. So, what is understanding? Understanding means they've got a pretty good grasp on the scripture. Y'all just go ahead and put a fire emoji if you can. I'm not even going to ask for a number for this one.

Y'all go ahead and put a fire emoji if you can. If you see Daniel 11:35 in a way that you may have never seen before, some of them have understanding. They've got understanding. They have understanding. They understand the scriptures. Some of them of understanding shall fall. This is not a a permanent fall. It is a fall to try them, to test them. Some kind of test is supposed to happen after 1798, after the many days. Something that's going to try them and also involves purging, cleansing, h to make them white, h even to the time of the end.

Wow. Y'all come back to the screen for a minute. Can can you think of any event that would have taken place after 1798 that would involve people who gained an understanding of the word of God being tried being tested to purge to separate those who claim to serve God from those who really serve also people having to deal with purging, cleansing. H remember we're talking about the parallel of Daniel chapter 8. Remember that. Remember, in fact, it is quite interesting that if you were to go to Revelation 3:9, where the Bible is speaking about the the Philadelphiaian church, the Philadelphiaian church, which prophetically speaking points to the great disappointment, notice what Revelation 3:9 says.

Says, "Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews and are not, but do lie. I will make them to come and worship before thy feet and to know that I have loved thee because thou has kept the word of my patience. I will also keep thee from the hour of temptation which shall come upon the world to try them. What did Daniel 11:35 say? To try them to try them that dwell upon the earth. Daniel 11:35 everyone is a reference to the beginning of the judgment. It is a reference to the very events that occur at the end of the 2300 day prophecy which would make sense because if Daniel 11 parallels Daniel 8, then we can expect to see the same thing but in more detail.

Y'all put a one in the chat if you're following with me so far. In fact, in fact, it is interesting to note that in Daniel chapter 7, right after verse 25, which talks about the 1,260 years, in the very next verse, let's go back to the screen. In the very next verse, it says, "But the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his dominion, the little horn, to consume and to destroy it unto the end." Unto the time of the end. Come on, y'all. Come on. Daniel 11:35. and some of them of understanding shall fall to try them and to purge them and to make them white even to the time of the end.

Now hold on, hold on. I I want you to follow this. I want you to check this out. Daniel 8:13 and 14. Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that certain saint which speak, "How long shall be the vision concerning the daily sacrifice and the transgression of desolation to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trodden underfoot? And he said unto me, unto 2,300 days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed." I want you to understand that the cleansing of the sanctuary parallels the purging of God's people.

Are y'all with me so far? Are you following? Y'all put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat if you are following the process so far. So now I want you to note I want you to note how in Daniel 8:E1 17 right after it describes the the cleansing of the sanctuary it then says for at the time of the end shall the vision be which again parallel parallels Daniel 11:35 because it is yet for a time appointed even to the time of the end. I just want you to see and follow the parallel. I want you to note what Albert Barnes, Adam Clark, I'm sorry.

Um, no, we're going to do uh Albert Barnes first. I want you to know what Albert Barnes had to say on this particular verse. Are y'all ready? So Albert Barnes in commenting on and some of them of understanding shall fall says some of them who have a correct understanding of religion and who have joined the army from pure motives. The idea seems to be that on some occasion they would meet with temporary def with a temporary defeat. Y'all, you guys, this is Albert Barn speaking. And some of them of understanding shall fall.

And his comment is, some of those who have a correct understanding of religion and who have joined the army from pure motives. The idea seems to be that on some occasion they would meet with a temporary defeat in order that the sincerity of the others might be tested or that it might be seen who adhered to the cause from principle and who from selfish purposes. If they should not always be successful, if they should be temporarily defeated. If some of the most eminent among them should fall among the slain, and if the cause should at any time look dark, this would serve to try the sincerity of the remainder of the army, and would be likely to thin it off of those who had joined it only from mercenary motives.

Are y'all catching this? Now, listen, I see some of you already kind of jumping ahead. Pastor, what about verse 40? Isn't that the time of the end? Isn't 1798 the time of the end? Yes, y'all listen. 1798 begins the time of the end, but the time of the end is an entire period. Daniel 11:40 is making a reference not only to what happened in 1798, but what happens beyond that. But what I'm showing you is that from verse 31 onward, this is what begins the the 1260 years and it culminates with Daniel 11:4-4.

So, so don't get too confused there. Just follow the pattern of thought. Stay with me where I'm at. And I know some of you are thinking ahead, wait a minute, what about this? Let's just follow. I want you to see something absolutely crucial here. So that was Albert Barnes. Albert Barnes. How about Adam Clark who said this disputing disputes on certain points of religion soon agitate the Christian church. And now having no outward persecution, they began to persecute each other. And many excellent men, men of understanding, fell victim because they would not embrace erroneous doctrines who profess when professed by the state.

But this was permitted to try them and to purge them to make them white to bring all to the pure profession possessing and practice possession and practice of Christianity. John Gil says this, "To try their faith, patience, and other graces, and whether they would hold fast their profession, and persevere in the good ways of God, and to purge and separate them from others, that were like chaff, hypocrites, so that they might be manifest, but both the one and the other." And these good men appear to be sincere and upright.

Oh, I want you to just note how how various commentators say that this verse pointed forward to some kind of event that would be a separating event between those who truly professed and those who were profess professing based on faulty motives. You guys, I need you to understand how powerfully this parallels the events of 1844. Are y'all with me? How powerfully this points to the events of 1844. This is exactly what happens at the end of the 2300 days. All right. Are y'all with me so far? We're just building a foundation here.

We're just building a foundation here. Daniel 12:9 and 10. Daniel 12:9 and 10. He said, "Go thy way, Daniel, for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end. Many shall be purified and made white and tried. But the wicked shall do wickedly, and none of the wicked shall understand." There is a direct parallel to Kora. A direct parallel. Daniel 12:9, many shall be purified and made white. Daniel 11, they shall be purified and tried. Daniel 8, the cleansing of the sanctuary. This is all parallel language.

Daniel, sorry, Revelation 7:14 describes the end result of Daniel 11, uh, Daniel 8, and Daniel 12. These are they which came out of great tribulation and have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the lamb. Again, Malachi 3 2 and 3. But who shall abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appearth? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller soap. And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver. He shall sit like on a throne. And he shall purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver that they may offer an offering unto righteousness.

So now let's go back to Daniel 11:32. Such as do wickedly against the covenant shall he corrupt by flatteries. But the strong and do exploits. These exploits are to continue until the end of time. So what are these exploits? What what is the situation which calls for the people of God to do exploits? Now I want to show you what the word exploits actually means. The word exploits in this verse is is is uh supplied but nonetheless it is correctly supplied. So let's talk about exploits for a second.

So the word exploit means to make full use of and derive benefit from a resource. So for example, 500 companies sprang up to exploit this new technology or it also means to use a situation or person in an unfair or selfish way. That is the company was exploiting a legal loophole. Uh accusations that uh that he exploited a wealthy patient but also yes Takar you're just getting that he shall sit. You get that? But also benefit unfairly from the work of someone typically by overworking or underpaying them.

Making money does not always mean exploiting others. So in general, the word exploit means to take advantage of a situation. Sometimes it could be good, sometimes it could be bad. But listen to me. The Bible says that God's people will be strong and do exploits. Meaning according to Daniel 11, there is a situation going on in which God's people are supposed to exploit. Y'all put a put a seven in the chat if you understand what I just said. In light of the judgment and in light of the situation in Daniel 11, God's people are supposed to be doing exploits.

So the question is, what is the situation going on in Daniel 11 that God's people are supposed to use to their advantage? Are you with me? So, so far we've seen Daniel 8 parallels Daniel chapter 11. In Daniel 8, you have the explanation of the judgment of God's people being persecuted, of this little horn doing his thing, but then those things being reversed and the sanctuary will ultimately be cleansed. In Daniel 8, beginning with verse 31, we see the same thing. And there is repeated enlarge in Daniel chapter beginning in Daniel chapter 11 going on all the way till Daniel chapter 11 verse 45.

But nonetheless what we're seeing is an unfolding of events that deal with the little horn and with judgment. And we've seen so far specifically with with God's people going through this great disappointment to be tried and ultimately purged as if a judgment is happening. Then we see that God's people in this context are supposed to be doing exploits. Exploits represents taking advantage of a situation. What is the situation in Daniel chapter 11? Let me show you. In Daniel 11, we are introduced to two characters.

Let's go to Daniel 11:36. The Bible says, "And the king shall do according to his will. He shall exalt himself and magnify himself above every god and shall speak marvelous things against the God of gods and shall prosper till the till the indignation be accomplished for that that is determined shall be done. This is who Daniel 11 identifies as the king of the north. This is the very same power as the little horn in Daniel chapter 8 and Daniel 7. So remember in Daniel 7, this power, this little horn magnifies himself.

You see the same description in Daniel 11:36. The king of the north is that that horn that came out of the out of the northern uh uh out of that rose out of one of the horns in Daniel chapter 8. So remember Daniel chapter 8 we identified Rome and then papo Rome. Papo Rome is a king of the north. The papacy is symbolic of Babylon. So, so this is all hopefully not new knowledge to you. Now, the Bible says in Daniel 11:40, note with me, Daniel 11:40, at the time of the end shall the king of the south push at him.

So, who is this king of the south that pushes against the king of the north? Well, the king of the south was symbolic of Egypt. And out of the four horns that rose out of out of uh out of uh the Grecian Empire, uh remember one horn took the northern hemisphere and the other horn took the southern hemisphere. the northern hemisphere um became known as the Seucid Empire and the southern hemisphere became known as the Egyptian Empire or the the they took over the the territory of Egypt I should say.

So, the king of the north, Babylon, the king of the south, Egypt, and then when you get to Revelation chap 11, in Revelation chapter 11, we're not going to read this entire thing, but we see this power rising on the scene, which is identified as spiritually Egypt. And according to Bible prophecy and according to a study on Daniel chapter 11, we see that the event here in which this power attacks the two witnesses, meaning the word of God, the Old Testament and the New Testament was atheism, right?

That which is against the Bible. So spiritually speaking on the one hand the king of the north represents the papacy apostate Protestantism and all which claim the Bible claim Jesus but are not really following. And then the king of the south would symbolize Egypt which has come to represent atheism. Who is God that I should obey him? This is this is the juiced version of a of a in-depth study on Daniel chapter 11. So with this said now we understand that whatever the exploits are that God's people are supposed to be doing the exploits the situation in which God's people should be exploiting is this battle between the king of the north and the king of the south.

Does that make sense? Y'all put a put a five in the chat if you understood the point that I've been building up to. What God's people are supposed to be taking advantage of, what we're supposed to be exploiting for a good purpose is this battle between the professed religious and those who don't claim rel religion at all. the king of the north and the king of the south, Babylon and Egypt. So, when the text says that they will be strong and do exploits, we might ask a question, well, what does it mean in the context to be strong and do exploits?

And all we got to do is go over to 2 Timothy 2:1 and note what 2 Timothy chapter 2:1 says. It says, "Thou therefore be strong, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus, and the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same. Commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ." Okay. So, we now see that to be strong is to commit faithful men to teaching and spreading the gospel. So, when the text says that these will be strong and do exploits, oh, it's just another way of saying they're going to be spreading the gospel.

They're going to be doing evangelism. Now, listen, this this sermon is an in-house sermon. So, so I just saw someone say, "Well, how did you get King of the North and how do you get Egypt? You're spiritualizing." No, no, no. I'm not I'm just not taking the time right now to do an actual indepth study to demonstrate why the little horn is actually the papacy and the the king of the south which is described in Revelation 11 as spiritual Egypt represents spiritual Egypt and atheism. We're not doing that today.

I might do that at another time. I've done previous videos on this. So, just I I'm watching who's commenting and I want to make sure that I'm taking into account everyone who's watching right now. So, for the for those of you who have never heard this before, I understand. But know that know that I'm going somewhere with this message. Okay? And I'm not going to fight with you in the comment either. Okay? So, we're just gonna I'm gonna move on. Reach out to me. Email me if you need to. Okay? For those of you who are like, "What are you talking about?

The king of the north is the papacy or what are you talking about? The king of the south is Egypt." Email me. We'll have a study. Okay. So, let's move on. So, let's deal with the king of the north first. If God's people are to be exploiting, taking advantage of a situation, then it is obvious that if the situation involves evangelism, that oh, God must want us to do something while or in conjun or in in light of this battle between the king of the north, Babylon, and the king of the south, What does the gospel spreading the gospel have to do with this context of Daniel 11?

So, let's go to the screen. Let's deal with Babylon first. Jeremiah 24:9, the Bible says, "Behold, I will send and take all the families of the of the north, sayeth the Lord, and Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant, and will bring them against this land." So, I want you to note how here how Nebuchadnezzar is literally identified as the king of the north. He is the king of Babylon. At the end of time, Babylon is not a literal kingdom. It is a spiritual entity. So the king of the north represents spiritual Babylon.

But here in Jeremiah 24:9, Babylon and the and Nebuchadnezzar are identified as from the north. In fact, I don't I didn't have the verse in front of me, but in in another verse, Babylon is called the literally called the king from the north. a king of kings and lord of lords. That's what the text literally gives him that title. And so it says here, "Behold, I will take of all the families of the north, say the Lord, and Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant." That's an interesting term, my servant.

and will bring them against this land and against the inhabitants thereof and against all these nations round about and will utterly destroy them and make them an astonishment and in hissing and a perpetual desolation. So we see here that God is telling uh uh Jerusalem that Babylon is going to come and capture them. We get to Daniel chapter 1. So remember now Babylon king of the north. Why is God what does God want us to understand about evangelism in the context of the king of the north? Let me show you Daniel 1 vers1.

In the third year of the reign of Jehoakim, king of Judah, came Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, onto Jerusalem, and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoakim, king of Judah, into his hand with part of the vessels of the house of God, which he carried into the land of Shinar, to the house of his God, and brought the vessels into the treasure house of his God. y'all. my friend Mondo and I were talking the other day. I was out in Virginia and and Mando says to me, and the way he put it, I had already thought this, but the way he put it, it was just so like, wow.

He was like, "Do you realize what God is doing here?" I want y'all to think about this for a second. Do you realize what God is doing here? God has put the king of Judah and the sanctuary into the possession of Nebuchadnezzar. Does God h Why is God calling Nebuchadnezzar his servant? Is God trying to expose Nebuchadnezzar to the sanctuary? God allows Nebuchadnezzar to get a hold of the king of Judah. I want y'all to think please and think carefully. The king of Judah and the sanctuary. Jerusalem.

I've called you to be a light to the world, but y'all are not y'all are not doing what I've asked you to do. I need you to be a saving light to the nations. All right? If you don't want to do it the easy way, then we will do it the hard way. I want you to check this out. Check this out. Uh uh Daniel 1:3. So So watch this now, beloved. In other words, listen carefully. The book of Daniel as it relates to the kingdom of Babylon is about God trying to win Babylonians. Y'all go ahead and put a five in the chat.

The book of the book of Daniel as it relates to Babylon is about God seeking to witness to the Babylonian Empire. Now, I know you're thinking, "Okay, pastor, I didn't think about that point, but I know we're called to I need you to follow along. I need you to watch this. Come with me to Daniel chapter 1." Daniel chapter 1, verse three. And the king spake unto Ashanaz, the master of his Unix, that he should bring certain of the children of Israel, and of the king's seed, and other princes, children in whom was no blemish, but well-favored, and skillful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge, and understanding signs, and such as had ability in them to stand in the king's palace, whom they might teach the learning in the tongue of the Calaldanss.

Watch this, y'all. Watch this. Watch this. Watch this. And the king appointed them. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Where's my text? Oh, boy. It's not there. Here we go. And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat and of the wine which he drank, so nourishing them for three years, that at the end thereof they might stand before the king. And now watch this. Now among them were the children of Judah, Daniel, Haniah, Mishael, and Aariah. Listen y'all. What is God doing? What is God doing?

He is sending the spirit of prophecy into the Babylonian Empire. He's given them the king of Judah. He's given them the sanctuary. And he's given them a prophet. Why? What can we learn from Daniel's interaction in Babylon? But that God loved Nebuchadnezzar. Your goal is to witness. Now watch this. Let let's go back to the screen. Daniel 1:8. But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank. Therefore, he requested of the prince of the Unix that he might not defile himself.

Now, God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the prince of the Unix. Please understand this. Daniel is tested. Daniel, before I'm sending you into Babylon to do a work for me, to do exploits. To do exploits. Let me say it again. To do exploits, Daniel, I got to check your character. Daniel is tested in character. Note what the text says. He's tested in character. And and the Bible says, "The prince of the unic said unto Daniel, I fear the Lord my king, who has appointed your meat and your drink.

For why should he see your faces like worse liking than the children which are of your sort, and then you shall make me endanger my heart, my head to the king." Then said Daniel to Melar, whom the prince of the Unix had set over Daniel, Haniah, Michelle, Mishael, and Aariah, prove thy servants, I beseech thee 10 days, and you know the deal, right? They are proved 10 days, and at the end of the 10 days, they are found to be greater. They are found to be greater. Y'all, a bomb is coming. Please follow this carefully, y'all.

Something absolutely mindblowing is coming. So, watch what happens. Daniel is proven faithful. And then in Daniel chapter 2, watch this. In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams wherewith his spirit was troubled, and his sleep break from him. Then the king commanded to call the magicians and the astrologers and the sorcerers and the calaldians for tow the king his dream. So they came and stood before the king and and the king said unto them, I have dreamed the dream and the spirit and my spirit was troubled to know the dream.

Then spayed the Caldanss to the king and Serak, oh king, live forever. Tell thy servants the dream and we will show the interpretation. The king answered and said unto Calaldians, the thing is gone from me. And if you will not make known unto me the dream, the interpretation thereof, you shall be cut in pieces and your houses shall be made a dungill. So let me ask a question. Does God give the king of Nebuchadnezzar a dream? Yes or no? And you might then ask a question, why is God giving the king of Nebuchadnezzar a dream?

Is it because he want um the king of Nebuchadnezzar? Is it because he wants the king of Babylon to be saved? What do y'all think? Did God want the king of Babylon to humble his heart to be saved? Yes, he did. Did God want Babylonians to be saved? Yes, he did. And what is God doing? God sends the king a dream. How many of you would like God to send you a dream? You think, man, Nebuchadnezzar was a heathen king. God gave the king a dream. You guys, that is a powerful witness to God, what God's ideal, what he wants for people who are in Babylon today.

God is trying to show them the future because they don't understand it. They don't understand prophecy. They're thinking about it, but they don't understand it. And so, and so, uh, uh, Daniel is asked, Daniel asked, "Give me time and I will make known the known the dream." And then Daniel prays to God, "The interpretation of the dream is given him. Nobody else can understand the interpretation. Only Daniel." And now notice what Daniel chapter 28 and 29 says. But there is a God in heaven that revealth the secrets and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days.

Thy dream and the visions of thy head upon thy bed are these. As for thee, O king, thy thoughts came into thy mind upon thy bed, what should come to pass hereafter, and he that revealth secret secrets maketh known to thee what shall come to pass. Listen to me, you guys. What was the king of Babylon thinking? He was thinking about the future. He was thinking about what's to come. Can I tell you what's on the mind of those in spiritual Babylon? Y'all tell me what is on the mind of those in spiritual Babylon?

What is on the mind of those who want to make Babylon great? What is in the mind of I'm sorry, not Babylon great. What is in the mind of those who want to make Babylon great again? What is in the mind of those who see nationalism? They are Christians and they they they believe that that America uh uh is the head, should be the head, and we will be the glorious land of will be the last hope of this world. What is on their minds, beloved? They're genuinely thinking about the future, but they don't understand it.

Are y'all with me? And what God needs is Daniel's to explain the prophecies. God is working. Listen to me y'all. God is working with people in Babylon, but he also needs his own people to be there and show up for duty. Now, now watch this. After Daniel explains the dream to Nebuchadnezzar, I want you to notice the response. Then the king Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face and worshiped Daniel. You guys, we could stop the sermon right here, but we are not going to because this is only the surface.

This is only the surface. Please read that again. the king of Babylon, the king of the north. Now, don't think I'm saying what you might think, oh, is this what he's alluding to? No. The ultimate king of the north, who is Satan, will never bow to Jesus. He will only when it's too late. But I what I want you to see, beloved, is that God has hope for people in Babylon. God has love for people in Babylon. And when the text says Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face and worshiped Daniel and commanded that they should offer an oblation and sweet orders unto him, the king said unto Daniel, "Of a truth it is that your God is a God of gods, and a Lord of kings, and a revealer of secrets.

Seeest thou could read, reveal, thou could reveal the secrets." Then the king made Daniel a great man and gave him many great gifts and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon. Y'all catch that? Made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon. May I suggest to you that God is trying to put his people in a place where they will have they will have inroads Now, now watch this, you guys. This same king in Daniel 3 makes an image of all gold. He's heard the vision, but he's like, "Yeah, I don't think my kingdom's going to fall."

So, he makes an image of all gold. And what I want to share with you, beloved, is that Daniel doesn't bow to the vision. Daniel doesn't say, "Yay, make Babylon great again. I'm with you, king." He doesn't do that. And what Nebuchadnezzar does is he calls together. Don't get mad at me y'all. Just listen. He calls together a parade to celebrate Babylon. Babylon's might, Babylon's military, Babylon's power. Is this not great Babylon that I have built? and and Daniel being true being a true friend to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego who are in the story being a true witness to Nebuchadnezzar don't go along with, "Yay, make Babylon great again."

No, no, no, no, no, no. They're going to stand for principle and truth and say, "No, we're not down with you with this vision because this vision is not God's vision. God needs Daniels, Shadrach, Meshaches, and Abedneles who will stand and be true witnesses to those in Babylon. I'm not bowing to your false image of what you think is going to happen in the future. No, no, no, no. There is prophecy that states that this, this, this, and this is going to happen. And so, no, I will not bow before your golden image, and I will not join in with your parade.

I'm not bowing. In Daniel chapter 4, watch this. In Daniel chapter 4, after Nebuchadnezzar reaches the height of pride, he is humbled. And read these words, beloved, and read them carefully. Nebuchadnezzar the king unto all people, nations, and languages. Sounds like Revelation chapter 14, doesn't it? How was Nebuchadnezzar joining in to proclaim a message to people, all peoples, nation, nations, and languages that dwell on the earth? Peace be unto you. I thought it good to show the signs and wonders that the high God has wrought toward me.

How great are his signs and how mighty are his wonders. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom and his dominion is from generation to generation. And he goes on and concludes with this. Now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and extol and honor the king of heaven. All whose works are truth and his ways judgment and those that walk in pride he's able to obey. Do you see this? The king of Babylon converts to become a follower of the God of heaven. Now beloved, this lets us know something that in Babylon there are people who are ripe for conversion.

People in high places, people in low places. We should be trying to win all of them. However, there's a second king in Babylon, isn't there? Yeah, there's a second king. Let's go to Daniel chapter 5. Daniel chapter 5 and and and verse one. Belshazar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his lords and drank wine before the l before the thousand. Belshazar while he tasted the wine commanded to bring the gold and the silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem that the king and his princes his wives and his concubines might drink therein.

And y'all remember the story, right? There's a writing on the wall. And then that Daniel comes in and and and Daniel tells him, he says, "Listen, your father converted and you knew better." He He understood and was converted. You know this. And you still did what you did. You still blasphemed God. And he ends with these words. Look at the screen. Daniel 5, your kingdom is numbered and finished. Your weight in the balances. Your kingdom is divided and given to the Mes and the Persians. Now, who led the Mes and the Persians?

It was Cyrus. The Mes and the Persians are from the east and the north. I want you to understand that Cyrus is a type of Jesus. This is pretty well-known knowledge. Cyrus is a type of Jesus. Babylon falls to a person who is a type of Jesus. what do we learn so far? We see that God witnessed to Babylon. That's what Daniel is talking about. God was a witness to God witnessed to Babylon through he utilized their desire to know the future and he said, "Hey, listen. I know you want to know the future.

Let me come in and show you what the Bible actually says. Let me come in and show you who this king of the north actually is. Let me come in and show you what this 1260 actually means. Let me come in and show you what this little horn actually is going to do. Let me come in and show you about this beast that has horns like a lamb and speaks as a dragon." and be willing to say that to the face of apostate Protestantism. To be willing to say that to the face of the papacy and say, "Listen, this is not a dig against you personally, but I need to show you that this is what prophecy is.

These are the exploits. God wants us to take advantage of this war by winning those who are of the king of the north." All right. Are y'all ready for the bomb? Put a five in the chat if you're ready for the bomb. Put a five in the chat if you're ready for the bomb. Cuz everything I shared up to now is just was just a buildup, y'all. Y'all ready for this? What about Egypt? How does God feel about Egypt, the king of the south? So when we think about Egypt, we typically think about Moses, right? Pharaoh, who would be considered the king, right, of Egypt, the king of the south, Pharaoh.

And we think of the whole Moses Israel thing. But I'm going to take y'all someplace else. Let's go to Genesis chapter 39. And Daniel was brought down to Babylon. H. You're probably saying, "Pastor, you're reading that wrong. I know. I just want you to note the parallel. And Daniel was brought down to Babylon. Now the text does not say Daniel was brought down to Babylon. The text says Joseph was brought down to Egypt. So please note then Daniel is brought to Babylon while Joseph was brought to Egypt.

Daniel was brought to Babylon, king of the north. Joseph was brought to Egypt, king of the south. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Piper and an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, brought him of the hands of the Israelites, which had brought him down, which had brought him down thither. Come on, y'all. And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man, and he was made, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. Come on, let's keep reading. And his master saw that the Lord was with him and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

H wow. And Joseph found grace in the sight in his sight and served him. And he made him overseer of his house and all that he had put into his hands. Let's keep going. And it came to pass that from time to time he made him or from that time he made him overseer in his house over all that he had. And the Lord blessed the Egyptians house for Joseph's sake. And the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house and in the field. And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand. And he knew ought not and he knew not ought he had save the bread which he did eat.

And Joseph was a goodly person and well favored. Are y'all following this? Are y'all following this? Come on y'all. Come on. And it came to pass after these things that they tried Daniel that they put these unclean foods before Daniel. Oh, my bad. I'm thinking about Babylon. that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph and said, "Lie with me." But he refused and said unto his master's wife, "Behold, my master walked not what is with me in the house, and he has committed all that he is to my hand.

There is none greater in this house than I, neither has he kept back anything from me, but thee, because thou art his wife, how can I do this great wickedness and sin against God?" Do y'all see this? Just like Daniel was test like Daniel was brought down to Babylon, king of the north, Joseph was brought down to Egypt, king of the south. Just as Daniel has been tested to check his character, king of the king of the north, Babylon. So, Joseph is being tested for his character. Y'all put a five in the chat, y'all.

Come on. Now watch this y'all. Watch this. Are you ready? Are you ready? And it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh had a dream. Let's pray. Let's close the sermon. Let's say amen. Let's go. Let's go home. We We We just We just stop. We can stop right here, y'all. Come back. Come back for a moment. Please come back for a moment. Come here. Let Let's take that slide down for a second. Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, has a dream. He's not gonna get the dream. So God God is going to provide a man who's going to do exploits, help the king of Babylon understand according to his concerns.

Cuz in the north, their concerns were the future and and and what's going to happen to the kingdom. And and that was their concerns. Now we see Joseph being sent to Egypt, a prisoner, just like Daniel was in Babylon, a prisoner. Daniel 11, Daniel 11, beloved, is about this battle between the king of the north and the king of the south while God's people are are in the center. And God says, "My people, I need you to do exploits." What are those exploits, Lord? I need you. There are people in Babylon that I need you to win.

And there are people in Egypt, the king of the south, that I need you to win. But they both require different approaches because they have different concerns and different cares. Legitimate concerns and legitimate cares. But they're both missing the big picture. Come back. Let's go back to the screen. Y'all need to see this, y'all. Daniel Genesis chapter 41. And it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh dreamed, and behold, he stood by the river. And behold, there came up of the river seven well-favored kind and flat and fat-fledged, and they fed in the meadow.

And behold, seven other kind came up after them out of the river, ill-favored and lean-fledged, and stood by the other kind upon the brink of the river. And they and the ill-favored lean flesh kind did eat up the seven well-favored kind. And so Pharaoh awoke, and he slept and dreamed the second time. And behold, seven ears of corn came up on the stalk, ranking good. And behold, seven thin ears blasted up with the east wind sprung up after them. And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears.

And Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled. Just like Nebuchadnezzar's spirit was troubled. I need y'all to understand, beloved, that God is troubling those who are part of the kingdom of the south. And God is troubling those who are part of the kingdom of the north. And he's troubling them with different things, different thoughts. But what God needs most of all, beloved, is his people who are supposed to be strong and doing exploits to be ready and prepared and know how do I minister to those who are of the kingdom of the south and how do I minister to those who are of the kingdom of the north?

But beloved, if God's people are not strong and are not doing exploits, but instead infighting against each other, oh, now you get the picture. Now you get the picture. Listen to me. It came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt. Y'all might be thinking we are reading Daniel chapter 2 right now, but we are not reading Daniel chapter 2. We are not talking about the king of the north right now. We are talking about the king of the south.

You might think this is Daniel chapter 2, but no, this is Genesis chapter 41. And the text says, "And all the wise men thereof, and Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh." Come on, somebody. Latana is absolutely right. Come on, somebody. What in the world? What in the world? How do you have the king of Babylon and the king so to speak of Egypt, the Pharaoh of Egypt, and God is ministering to them both? to interact with those who possess the spirit of prophecy.

Let's go. Genesis 41:2. And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, "The dream of Pharaoh is one." God has showed Pharaoh what he's about to do. Let me tell you, beloved, God is showing people in the kingdom of the south things that are about to happen. He's showing them, but they don't quite fully get it. They are seeing, listen to me, they are seeing project 2025, but they don't fully understand the significance. They are seeing this merging of church and state, but they don't quite get it. And they certainly don't have God in the picture.

God is showing the Babylonians one thing and he's showing the Egyptians something else, but he's doing it in order to set up God's people to be able to win both Nebuchadnezzar's and Pharaohs. Now, I want you to note, beloved, what Pharaoh's concern is. So first Joseph says to Pharaoh, "Listen, behold, there cometh seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt, and then shall arise after them seven years of famine, and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine shall consume the land.

And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of the famine following, for it shall be very grievous." And for that the dream was double unto Pharaoh twice. It is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. Now watch this. And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants. And Pharaoh said unto his servants, can we find such a one as this, in a man in whom the spirit of the God is? And Pharaoh, in whom the spirit of God is.

And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, for as much as God has showed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art. Come on, somebody. Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto the word, my thy word, shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, "See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt." Now, come on, y'all. How is f How is Joseph gonna be set over the land of Egypt, and Daniel set over the land of Babylon? Y'all listen to me.

We need Joe Daniels. We need Dan Fs. What God's people are the called to be is a combination of Joseph and Daniel combined into one. So that we know how to minister to the to the king of the south and we know how to minister to the king of the north. Please note with me note with me that that that Pharaoh's concern Genesis 41:55 listen to this. And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, "Go unto Joseph. What he saith to you, do listen Are y'all ready for this?"

Pharaoh's concern Pharaoh's concern was about the community. Do the people have enough to make it through a famine? Are the people fed prophecy and combine it with community service? That's how you're going to reach the king of the south. You can't just ignore the plight of the people. You can't just ignore racism. You can't just ignore poverty. You can't just for the kings of this for the king for the for the for the for the southern kingdom you have to address what their concerns are. And for the northern kingdom the same thing, DJs, JD's, however you want to say it, Joe Daniels, Dan Fs, however you want to put it.

What God is looking for is a combination of Joseph and Daniel so that we are involved in our communities while not getting rid of prophecy. Because prophecy is that which brings both are y'all catching are y'all catching what I'm saying here? Are y'all understanding the significance of what I'm pointing out to you today? By understanding how northerners think and understanding how southerners think, God says, "Meet them where they are." Pharaoh is evidently is Pharaoh is being shown about community loss that he's going to experience.

Nebuchadnezzar, he's thinking about the end of the world. He's thinking about how is this all going to end? What's the bigger picture? And God says, "Listen, for those on the north, right? For those on the north, right? Right. For those on the north, here's how I want you to bring prophecy to them. For those on the south, here's how I want you." The three angels messages must be adapted to meet northerners where they are and southerners where they are. And beloved, what happens is when we jump on the northerners side and say, "Yeah, those wicked old southerners," we are missing the point.

And when we jump on the southern side and say that there's no hope for the northerners, we're missing the point. God is calling us to evangelize, but he's calling us to do it faithfully. When you're in the north, don't go along with the parades of the north, y'all. When you're in the south, don't go along with the denials of God. Come on y'all. When you're in the south, identify with the famines in the land. When you're in the south, identify with the plight of the people. Don't think it is weakness or don't think it is, oh, you're just you're just being loving.

And that's what what the God what the gospel calls. We've got to speak the truth. No, beloved, listen to me. God spoke to Pharaoh in his way and and Nebuchadnezzar in his way. So let's go back to the screen. Exodus 1:8. Now there were arose a new king over Egypt. Because remember, just as there were two kings in Babylon, one whoa, that king responded, the other Oh, he didn't respond too well. Guess what? There were two pharaohs in Egypt. The first pharaoh, oh man, what a response. The second, listen, there arose up a new king over Egypt, a new king of the south, which knew not Joseph.

And he said unto his people, "Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come on, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply. And it come to pass, that when there fallth without any war, they join also to our enemies, and fight against us, and so get them up out of the land. Therefore, they did set over them task masters to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pitham and Ramsies. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew, and they were grieved because of the children of Israel.

Do y'all see this? Listen. Listen to the point I'm making here, y'all. In Babylon, there are those who are right for the picking and those who are not. In Egypt, there are those who are not. And what God has called us to do is he has called us to do exploits. To be able to know how to minister to the king of the north as well as how to minister to, you know, come on y'all. When is the last time you thought about how can we minister to the king of to the king of the north? To the kingdom of the north.

How can we minister the kingdom of the we just look at go oh evil evil in both kingdoms in both kingdoms there are people who are ready to receive the truth because God has already been working with them and the exploits that God's people are called to do require requires us to have good character, requires us to be able to differentiate between right and wrong. To be able to understand the principles of the Bible and not go along with whatever Babylon says, not go along with whatever Egypt says, but to be able to understand the concerns of both Egypt and Babylon and speak to those concerns with a prophetic voice.

How do we reach Egypt? Look at Joseph and think about Isaiah 58. A call to minister to the poor and the needy and the oppressed. Oh, so pastor, is that what you've been saying all these years? That this is ministry to the south. When you minister in this, when the south sees that you are concerned about about their well-being, that they're going to have ears to listen because you fed, you you you you you gave drink when they were thirsty. You you went into their communities and formed ministries and ministered to them on beh on their behalf on the behalf of the Lord.

And yet you also brought you didn't throw aside prophecy. You brought it to the table and showed them, listen, there's a worse famine coming. And when you went to the right, you weren't just like, oh man, I love your golden image and your parades and your st Whoa. Yes, I'm with you all the way. No, you stood firm and said, "I love you." And because I love you, I'm telling you the truth. The devil is out to deceive you. this image y'all trying to build and this nationalism. No, I'm telling you because I love you.

I'm standing against this image like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego stood against that image. we're almost done, y'all. I need you to I need you to check this out. Let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen. We need Joe Daniels. We need We need Dan FS. Listen to this. Listen to this. How does the story of Babylon end? You remember the story of Babylon ends like this. Your kingdom is finished, is fallen, Those were kings from the north and the east. So interesting that Revelation 16:12 tells us that the way the end time Babylon falls is that the sixth angel pours out his vow upon the great river and the waters there were dried up that the ways of the kings of the east might be prepared.

That's interesting. Who are the kings of the east? Ultimately, the one leading the kings of the east is Jesus, the Cyrus of heaven. Just as a literal Cyrus overthrew Babylon, literal Babylon, so the spiritual Cyrus will overthrow spiritual Babylon. How did Egypt end? You'll remember Egypt ended with plagues and the wicked dying in a sea. A Red Sea. Oh, I'm sorry, I mean the Red Sea. Did y'all catch this? The way the king of the north and the king of the south end are both des both both descriptions of the second coming of Jesus.

And so what is it that God is trying to do? Listen to me y'all. He's trying to save Babylonians and Egyptians from coming destruction. Wait, wait, what you mean? That's the exploit. Those are the exploits that God is looking for his people to do to save people out of the kingdom of the north and to save them out of the kingdom of the south because destruction is coming. And now I'm about to show you the investigative judgment in a way that you may have never heard it before. Luke 21:35 Jesus says this, "For as a snare it shall come upon all them that dwell upon the face of the whole of the whole earth."

Watch ye therefore and pray always that you may be accounted worthy to escape. What does it mean to be accounted worthy to do something? What other word would you use in the place of accounted worthy? That you may be determined worthy to escape. that the judgment is about judging us worthy to escape? The reason why God wants people from the king of the north and people from the king of the south to come out of the king of the north and to come out of the king of the south and to join Jerusalem. spiritual Israel.

Just as Israel is spiritual, so Babylon is spiritual, so Egypt is spiritual. The reason why God is calling them out is because he wants to judge them worthy to escape. The investigative judgment is about clearing is about judging God's people worthy to escape. You want to be a part of this judgment. You do not want to be a part of the great white throne judgment which takes place at the end of time. So God is saying, "Get them out so that I can judge them worthy to escape." Two verses left. And the children of Israel sjoured from Ramssey's to Suko about 600,000 on foot that were with him with men that were men beside children.

And a mixed multitude went up also with them. Do y'all understand this? A mixed multitude that God's trying to save a mixed multitude. After this, they beheld, and lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb clothed with white robes and palms in their hands, and cried with a loud voice, saying, "Salvation to our our God, which siteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb." Listen to me, you guys.

Listen. God is looking for a multitude out of Egypt, and a multitude out of Babylon. In fact, it's so interesting. Let me go back one more text. Let me go back one text I jumped over. I got to read this. Speaking of this end time king of the north, he shall enter also into the glorious land, and many countries shall be overthrown. But these shall escape out of his hand, even Edom, Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon. Let me tell you, Edom, Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon were these were nations that were born out of Lot and and and Esau.

And they would kind of claim to be connected with God's people, but would often side with the enemies of God's people. They would side with Egypt. They would side with Babylon. And in fact, and many times they create they they basically were confederate with them against Israel. When the text says that Edom, Moab, and Ammon will escape this end time deception, which is what the text is saying. this end time king of the north. It's using in symbolic language the very same thing that we just saw. They're going to be people who were once connected with these false systems.

As Revelation 18 says, come out of her my people. God has people in these fallen systems. is that to a large degree, instead of us as God's people doing exploits, we're pulling exploits on each other. We're creating we're creating entire ministries and messages that are designed to do exploits on each other. There's a good exploitation, winning souls, and a bad exploitation, crisis, conflict. Ah, in the church. Oh, yes. And I believe, beloved, that that is Satan's way of keeping us occupied so that we do not win northerners or southerners.

So as we look at this amazing parallel, the story of Joseph, the story of Daniel, what we see is almost a mirror image of God loving the Egyptian and God loving the Babylonian so much so that he sends prophets to them. He gives them dreams himself, but they can't understand. So God says, "I'm going to send you my Joe Daniels." But if we're not studying prophecy, if our characters are shady, if we rejoice in wickedness and we rejoice in coldness and we rejoice in callousness and we and we think that callous things and cold things are cool and haha, if we think that and we think that reaching out to the to the to the to the poor and the and the oppressed is somehow silly and somehow a distraction and somehow work that other people should be doing and other churches should be doing, we have missed the point.

If we think all we need to do is preach prophecy and not minister to our communities, we are sorely mistaken. If we think all we need to do is minister to our communities and and forget about prophecy, we don't need it, The two come together. We need Daniels and Joseph. Y'all put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat if today you're saying, "Lord, help me. Help me to be a Joe Daniel. Help me to be a JD. Help me to be a DJ. Help me to be a Danf. Help me to help me to take these two stories and combine them within myself.

Help our church to take these two stories and combine them so that we as a church not only represent Daniel, but also represent Joseph." And beloved, let me tell you, there is a tendency in our church to think that all we need is Daniel. We don't need Joseph. All we need is to tell the truth and to preach prophecy. We don't need to be in communities doing X, Y, and Z. Let somebody else do that. We need to be about the three angels messages. Beloved, the three angels messages is for every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.

It's for Egyptians, and it's for Babylonians. Put that one in the chat. thank you. Thank you for showing us this amazing parallel. It is almost a mirror image of Daniel and Joseph. One ministering to the king of the south, one ministering to the king of the north. Lord, imagine if Daniel, if the Daniels called the Josephs evil or woke because he cared about the community. Imagine the Joseph's calling the Daniels uh uh uh uh lunatics because of their focus of his focus on on on prophecy. And and Lord, please help us to that you're trying to call us as a people to minister and to know how to reach people in their different backgrounds and their different life situations, Lord.

And Lord, above all, help us as a people to stop exploiting and to start exploiting or taking advantage of and winning souls for Jesus among those who claim to believe the truth but don't fully understand it and those who claim that the Bible is not true that there is no God help us Lord to become Joe Daniels Forgive us for exploiting one another and teach us Lord to be strong and do exploits for you. We pray this in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. May God bless you. Um we are going to put the uh link to Mighty Networks into the chat.

Um thank you guys for tuning in. I pray that this message um go study this thing. I pray that this message will impact you, will impact your church, will impact our church and may we be about our father's business. God bless you and um draw close to Jesus. Amen. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God.

It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.