Hello friends and there true health to with you uh my name is and um as you know um Tuesday I'm also a member of living and I am feel to share with you health messages that I am hoping of benefit to every other Tuesday and uh we're talking about health particularly about nutri one of my my specialty to talk about sh but this time pray. I'm learning getting better. So before pray okay for the opportunity you give us um this technology and about how to take ask you to be with us so that the technology that is said that everything that we may be for honor and glory in Jesus name we all right to this presentation I hope you have other uh find out you know by the way oh uh producer is she was having some tech difficulty know she's working very very hard.

Uh I'm going to try to maybe do the the audio with Okay. She said we'll be our producers working very hard on it. the same difficulties that I'm having with your sounding very very um I don't know what I don't know what um I've tried rebooting my rebooting my tried rebooting my browser. Try rebooting my Is there another browser? Um Um I don't know. Oh, did it clear up now? Oh, did it clear up now? You sound great. Yeah, I swear to before. Oh, yeah. But you're still coming in somewhere. It's still Oh, I see.

I don't know what's causing it. Um, I can try rebooting my computer one more time. I can try my but other than that I don't know what I don't know what to do. Okay. Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you. It's still bad. bad. Ohly. Wow. It's We're gonna have to end the stream and try again. Oh my goodness. Um, do you want to email you the link? I'll email you the link. I press leave. Um, yeah, hold on a second. Let me make sure you um Well, they're they're pause for technical difficulties, but Oh, come on.

Why is that one so smoothly? Really don't. Okay, I sent you the link to the new one. I will put that in the chat as well. So right right now where I'm even then click on the other um I think have to rejoin