Greetings church family. Um, welcome to Living Mana Online Church. Uh, I'm glad that you are worshiping with us today. And, uh, today is going to be a pretty somber message. Um, this is a discussion that, um, has been long overdue and we need to have a real talk and that's what we're going to do today. So, uh, put a one in the chat if you're ready for this message. And if you're not ready for this message, put a one in the chat anyway because, um, we we need to have this discussion. So, we're going to pray and we're going to get right into it.

So, I want to invite you to pray with me, um, and pray for me. Heavenly Father, Lord, I ask in a special way, Lord, that you would please speak, Lord, through this message. Help us Lord to to face um tough realities not for all of us but for many of us Lord. Um please prepare the hearts of all who say they love you. And may conviction set in is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. And so we are addressing today uh the the issue of how the SOP is causing great harm to the church. It's it's a somber issue and it's an issue again that we must address um because we are we are at a crossroads.

I want to invite you to turn with me uh to 1st Samuel chapter 10. We're going to put the slide up on the screen. In 1st Samuel chapter 10, beginning with verse one, we're looking at the story of uh Samuel being anointed. And the Bible says um or rather Saul being anointed. The Bible says in 1st Samuel chapter uh 10, 1st Samuel chapter 10 beginning with verse one, then Samuel took a vial of oil and poured it upon his head, that is Saul, and kissed him and said, "It is not because the Lord has anointed thee.

Or is it not because the Lord has anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?" So we see here that that Saul is anointed and then the Bible says in verse 10 of the same chapter that shortly after Saul is anointed says when they came through to the hill behold a company of prophets met him that is Saul and the spirit of God came upon him and he prophesied among them. And so what I want you to note here is that Saul after he is anointed receives the spirit of prophecy. The Bible says the spirit of God came upon him and he prophesied.

Verse 11. And it came to pass when all that knew him before before time saw that. Behold, he prophesied among the prophets. Then the people said one to another, "What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets? And so please note here, I want you to put it put this in the chat. Saul had the spirit of prophecy. And hence we we we like to abbreviate it the SOP, the spirit of prophecy. And we know that for a time Saul was was good with God. And then we're introduced to a new character a little bit later in the story whose name is David.

And we know that David um does a mighty feat. He defeats Goliath while Saul was afraid to fight Goliath. Would not go out to fight him. A and Saul had begun to take a turn for worst. And and so after David defeats Goliath, uh we're going to see here in in 1st Samuel chapter 18 verse 6. 1st Samuel chapter 18 verse 6. Let's go back to the screen. And it says, "And it came to pass as they came when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistines that the women came out of all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul with tabs, with joy, and with instruments of music."

Verse 7, "And the women answered one another as they played and said, Saul has slain his thousands and David his 10 thousands." And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him, and he said, "They have ascribed unto David 10 thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands. And what can he have more but the kingdom?" And I want you to notice verse nine. And Saul eyed David from that day forward. Saul eyed David. Now listen guys, every time I read this verse that Saul eyed David. I just have this picture in my mind of like, you know, imagine the camera just zooming in on one of Saul's eyes and he's just eyeing David.

And you know, it it it's kind of a funny picture, but it's also a sad picture. Saul eyed David. You can imagine that eye. that I became evil. And and and this is this is where Saul is beginning to to move away from the spirit of prophecy. And now Saul has become paranoid. Put that word in the chat for me, please. Saul has become paranoid. Instead of the spirit of prophecy being upon him, it is now the spirit of paranoia. S O P. A different type of SOP. Saul is now paranoid of David. Y'all put a one in the chat if you're following.

So, he moves from the spirit of prophecy to the spirit of paranoia. And I want you to notice uh uh in the same chapter, next verse, very next verse, verse 10, the Bible says, "And it came to pass on the marorrow that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David played with his hand as at other times, and there was a javelin in Saul's hand." Now, let me ask y'all a question. What is Saul about to do with this javelin? What does this signify? Saul is about to be begin a course against David.

And and what Saul is going to do is he's going to begin, the text says that an evil spirit came upon Saul and now Saul is going to begin to persecute. Put that word in the chat for me, please. Persecute David. Meaning Saul went from the spirit of prophecy to the spirit of paranoia which ultimately led to the persecution. Persecution of one of his own. If y'all with me so far, put a one in the chat. So, let's talk about the spirit of paranoia for a moment. And in this spirit of paranoia that Saul began to exercise, uh, he began to think things about David, things that were not true.

But nonetheless, he became paranoid. And this paranoia began to work all sorts of crazy thoughts in his mind. David is out to kill me. David is out to get me. David is out to take my kingdom. And he begins to think all these paranoid thoughts which ultimately lead the spirit of paranoia SOP ultimately led to the spirit of persecution SOP. Are y'all with me so far? Now, now why have I used this as the foundation of our message today? Please come back with me and I want you to notice remember something about Saul.

In the beginning of our story, we saw that Saul was anointed. Put that word in the chat for me, please. Saul was anointed. So, please keep that in mind. And I want you to notice with me now 1st Samuel chapter 9 verse two. 1st Samuel chapter 9 verse two. The Bible says of Saul, "And he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice young man and a goodly. There was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he from his shoulders and upward. He was higher than any of the people. So I want you to note the stature of Saul, this anointed one.

Let me say it again. The stature of Saul, this anointed one, this one that was called goodlier than anybody else. There was none goodlier than him. Beautiful word there. Goodlier. He was both goodlier and taller in statute than anyone else. And he was an anointed one. Put a one in the chat if y'all are following me. He was an anointed one. And if we begin to think, man, who does this remind me of? Yes. Yes. You would not be wrong for saying it reminds me of Lucifer. Let's go back to the screen. And I want you to note in Ezekiel 28:14 where the Bible says of Lucifer, "Thou art the anointed cherub that coverth, and I have set thee so.

Thou was upon the holy mountain of God. Thou has walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire. Thou was perfect, goodlier than any other angel. Thou was perfect in thy ways from the day that thou was created till iniquity was found in thee." So, so please note here. In fact, let's just go to the next slide very quickly. And I want you to note Isaiah 14:13, where the Bible says, "For thou hast said in thine heart," speaking of Lucifer, "I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God.

I will sit also upon the upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the most high." That's Isaiah chapter 14:es 13. and 14. So please note with me that Lucifer, who was once an anointed cherub, who was once perfect, goodly if you will, perfect in statute, becomes jealous of Jesus. He wants to sit in the place of the most high. He wants to be like the most high. Now, why is this significant? Because you'll remember that in the character of David, David is introduced to us as a shepherd who is watching his father's flock, his father's sheep, when an enemy rises up to threaten the flock, and David defeats that enemy.

Think with me, y'all. Think with me of what Jesus did in heaven before the earth was created. Now remember in the story of David, the father, his father sends his son to go check on his brethren. He came unto his own, but his own received him not. And you're going to say, "Yes, yes, yes, pastor. David is a type of Jesus, while Saul is a type of Satan." Very good. Understanding that, I want to now take you back to what happened in heaven. And I want to share something with you. Let me read this definition for you for a moment.

Come with me back to the screen. And I want to look at the word paranoia. Paranoia. So the word paranoia, it literally means a tendency on the part of an individual or a group toward excessive or irrational suspiciousness and distrustfulness of others. Did y'all get that definition? an excessive or irrational others. Here's another definition. Paranoid is an ad adjective used to describe someone who has the mental disorder paranoia, which is characterized by delusions and feelings of extreme distrust.

Don't trust anybody. Suspicion and being targeted by others. It can also refer to feelings or to feeling extremely nervous and worried because you believe that other people do not like you or are trying to harm you. All right. So with this definition of paranoia in mind and we're not talking about now the clinical definition of paranoia, we are talking about the spiritual definition of paranoia, the biblical definition of paranoia. So I'm not dealing with people who are clinically diagnosed as being paranoid.

That's not what I'm doing. That's not what I'm talking about. We're talking about biblically paranoid. Here's my question for you right now. Was Lucifer in heaven according to that definition paranoid? Did Lucifer begin to think in his mind that God was up to something that he was not up to? Come on. Let's go now to what we also call the spirit of prophecy. the writings of the prophet that God gave to this church, which I am unashamed to say is a prophet and has she is not the spirit of prophecy, but she has the spirit of prophecy because that's what all prophets have.

And so we say when referring to her writings that they are the SOP, the spirit of prophecy. So, let me say to you right now that I believe that God has gifted our church with the spirit of prophecy. But beloved, we also have a major issue with a different type of SOP. And y'all are going to see what I'm saying in a moment. So, let's go back and let's check out what the spirit of prophecy has to say about Lucifer in heaven. Let's go to the screen. And here's what it says. Patriarchs and Prophets, page 38.

Lucifer had presented the purposes of God in a false light, misconstring and distorting them to excite dissent and dissatisfaction. He cunningly drew his hearers on to give utterance to their feelings. Then these expressions were repeated by him when it would best or when it was when it would serve his purpose as evidence that the angels were not fully in harmony with the government God. While claiming for himself perfect loyalty to God, he urged that changes in the order and laws of heaven were necessary for the stability of divine government.

thus while working to excite opposition to the law of God and to instill his own discontent, his own paranoia, his own distrust into the minds of angels under him. He ostensibly he was ostensibly seeking to remove dissatisfaction and to reconcile disaffected angels to the order of heaven while secretly fermenting discord and rebellion. He with consumate craft caused it to appear as his sole purpose to promote loyalty and to preserve harmony and peace. So let me ask you a question again. Was Satan distrustful when he had no reason to be distrustful?

Was Satan suspicious? Was Satan paranoid? Was Satan beginning to think, "Yeah, God God is is trying to hold stuff back from me. God has a plan to keep me down." Just as Saul became paranoid of David, was Satan paranoid of Jesus in heaven, was Satan beginning to watch with an evil eye Jesus's moves? What is God doing now? What is he up to now? Just beloved, listen to me. In the story of David and Saul, we have a snapshot of what occurred in heaven. We see how deluded Satan became through his own paranoia, through his own distrust, through his own and he begins to watch for evil.

Hold on, y'all. Hold on. Watch this. Come back with me to the screen. Ezekiel 28:16. Note what the Bible says here. By the multitude of thy merchandise, they have filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned. That's verse 16. Notice with me again, verse 18. Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude of thine iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffic. Do y'all see it on the screen? Let me read it again. Ezekiel 28:16. By the multitude of thy merchandise, they have filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned.

Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries. By the multitude of thine iniquity, by the iniquity of thy traffic. Let me ask you a question. Was Lucifer merchandising that which we which he had become paranoid about? Yes, indeed. He began to merchandise to the other angels his own paranoia, his own distrust. And he began to put in them the same spirit of paranoia. S O P, the same spirit of distrust against angelic brethren. The Bible says in Revelation 12:4, Revelation 12:4, note with me, the Bible says, "And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven and did cast them to the earth."

Why is that significant? According to Isaiah chapter 9:15, the ancient and honorable, he is the head, and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail. What did Lucifer merchandise to onethird of the angels that caused the angels to be swept away by his tail? He was merchandising lies. He was merchandising his own paranoia, his own fears, his own worked up imagination. Notice again with me, notice again with me, going back to the spirit of prophecy, she continues to say, "Lucifer went forth to diffuse the spirit of discontent among the angels."

The spirit of what? Everybody put that word in the chat for me, please. The discontent. Discontent. For a time he concealed his real purpose under an appearance of reverence for God. He insinuated doubts concerning the laws that governed heavenly beings, intimating that angels needed no such restraint, for their own wisdom was was a sufficient guide. All their thoughts were holy. It was no more possible for them than for God himself to er this the exaltation of the son of God as equal with the father was represented as an injustice to Lucifer.

If this prince of angels could but attain to his true exalted position, great good would acrue to the entire host of heaven. For it was his object to secure freedom for all. Subtle deceptions through the ws of Lucifer were fast obtaining in the heavenly courts. Lucifer is going insane in his mind. His paranoia has taken over. And now he's beginning to think of all kinds of scenarios in which God is unjust, in which the the the the heavenly host, the heavenly government is actually corrupt and they are doing things behind the angel's backs.

Which brings me to my next point. How did Satan deceive and merchandise his paranoia? He painted a false picture of future. Let me say it again. He painted a false picture of the future. In other words, he presented a picture to one-third of the angels that if we continue to serve God in the way we are, if we don't do something now, because God is up to something, if we don't make our move now, things in the future are going to be bad. And so he now presents a counterfeit spirit of prophecy, a counterfeit prophetic picture, one based on self centered fear.

If we don't do something now, it's going to be very bad for us in the future. Come back with me to the screen. Notice what it says here. He told them that both he and they had now gone too far to go back and he would risk the consequences because he would never bow in survile worship. Angels, if we if we repent, if we submit, it's going to be serv worship from here on out to the son of God. He claimed that God would not forgive. And now they must assert their liberty and take by force the position and authority that was not willingly given to them.

In this way, Lucifer, the lightbearer, who shared God's glory, who stood next to his throne by transgression, became Satan, the adversary. Do y'all see this? He now paints a picture of what will happen if they don't act now. What will happen if they don't fight now? What will happen if they even think about repenting? If they even think about going back. No, it's going to be bad. And this is all a self centered fear of the future. Follow me y'all. I know y'all thinking right now, oh, pastor's about to kill.

Just follow me. Don't Don't think ahead. Stay with me in the moment, please. Let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. The exaltation of the son of God as equal to the father. In fact, let's just here. Come on. Notice Revelation 12:7. Notice Revelation 12:7. The Bible says, "And there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon fought and his angels." Now, let me ask you a question. Is the devil and his angels now seeking to persecute their fellow angels? What are they attempting to do in this war?

They are attempting to fight against and dominate over their fellow angels. In other words, beloved, the SOP, spirit of paranoia, ultimately leads to the spirit of persecution. I want y'all to put that formula in the chat for me, please. The spirit of paranoia will ultimately lead to the spirit of persecution. Y'all got it? The spirit of paranoia will always lead to the spirit of persecution. Now, now that we have set that groundwork, remember the dragon and his angels fought. The dragon had been spreading lies, speaking lies with his mouth.

And what were those lies? We are being unduly or unfairly treated when they weren't. We are being persecuted when they weren't. And the paranoia, the fear that he was able to capitalize on to to to to grab hold of these angels with fear, the spirit of fear. I'm going to come back to that. That self-centered fear ultimately led to the spirit of persecution. Now, put a two in the chat if y'all ready to go to the next point because here we come to the next point. You guys, are y'all ready for this?

Come with me back to the screen. Revelation chapter 13 and verse 11. Revelation 13:1. The Bible says here, "And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon." Now, let me ask y'all a question. Let me ask you guys a question. If the dragon in the beginning became paranoid and then spread that paranoia to one-third of angels to lead them to believe that there was an enemy threat that was non-existent. And through that non-existent enemy threat lead them to end up having the persecution.

Then would it be fair to assume that this end time beast that looks like a lamb? So, so a lamb is docile, right? In fact, come with me back to the screen. I want you to notice Isaiah 53 verse verse 7, which says this. He was oppressed, he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter and as a sheep before her sharers is dumb. So he opened not his mouth. Or how about this one? Jeremiah 11 verse 19. But I was like a lamb or an ox that is brought to the slaughter.

I knew not that they had devised devices against me, saying, let us destroy the tree with the fruit thereof, and let us cut him off from the land of the living that his name may not be may be no more remembered. The lamb is a docile creature. It is easy to persecute a lamb. Could it be possible that this beast in Revelation 13:11, while appearing docile, while while claiming docility, while even claiming persecution, could be induced with the paranoia, which will ultimately lead to the spirit of persecution.

What do you think? Could it be possible that the way this lamblike beast that ultimately speaks like a dragon, could it be possible that the persecution done by this lamblike beast at the end of time is done under the spirit of paranoia? Let me let me show you what I mean. So for example um just recently let's go back to the screen um a new office has been put in place uh in our government and that office is the white house faith office white house faith office. Let's let's come back and um let me ask you so what is that office supposed to do?

It's supposed to stop, right? Or no longer. Yeah. Supposed to stop the persecution of Christians here, the unfair and and unjust treatment, the persecution of Christians in America. So let let's let's go back to the screen in Christianity today and this is uh 2024 uh the 50 countries where it is hardest to follow Jesus in 2024. All right. So do you see the slide on the screen? This is from Christianity today. And in this picture, in this slide, it's going to discuss, can you guys see it on the screen?

In this slide is going to discuss what 50 countries are the hardest countries in which it is to follow article says this. Almost 5,000 Christians were killed for their faith last year. Almost 4,000 were abducted. Nearly 15,000 churches were attacked or closed. And more than 295,000 29500,000 Christians were forcibly displaced from their homes because of their faith. Let's keep reading. And uh there we go. When this list was first issued in 1993, only 40 countries scored sufficiently high to warrant tracking.

This year, 78 countries qualify. And there you see the map, the countries qualify for where it is really hard to follow Jesus, where it is really hard to be a Christian, where Christians are actually being persecuted. Now, let me ask a question. Can you guys see America on that map? Put a one in the chat if you see America on that map. So in this map, you know, the deeper the red, the more the the the stronger the persecution, stronger the persecution. So note with me what America looks article.

There's the same map. You see, America has no color on it. No red, no orange, no color. That's strange. It's not strange. But you would think, you would think, check this out, y'all. Uh, in this next slide from the magazine Relevant, this is a Christian-based magazine. says 59% of American Christians say they are persecution. So, so let's talk for a moment. Let's talk for a moment about what what Christians here in America, right? And we understand what the Bible calls apostate Protestantism. What do we here in America?

What do Christians here in America, the Christians who say, "Man, we're under persecution here." And because we're under persecution here, we've got to get a hold of the government because unless we get a hold of the government, things are going to get really bad for Christians. And they're already getting really bad. They are try they are trying to cancel Christmas. If someone doesn't stand up and and and say something and do something, what will become of us next? Are y'all following what I'm saying?

They're trying to cancel Christmas. Hey, they're trying to force me to bake a cake. Cake wars. In other countries, Christians are dying. They are literally being killed. Whereas here in America, check this out, y'all. The one nation which is prophesied to bring about the greatest persecution that the world has ever seen is the nation where Christians are most free to follow their faith. And yet, and yet we have this, the devil is putting this spirit paranoia into American Christianity where if we don't get a hold of the government, we will be forced to bake cakes for gay people.

We will be forced endure LGBTQ people getting married. I I need y'all to understand and I don't want to make light of this like I I I'm trying to say look at what's happening in these other countries and here we are in America arguing about cancel culture if we don't do something America is going we're going to be persecuted. I want y'all to understand that the devil has created a spirit of paranoia, placed it within American Christianity to the point where they are now like if we do not take over the government, if we do not if we do not take the reigns of government and get our people in office, then Christianity in America is going to be forced.

to lose the culture wars. Culture wars. You think they're fighting culture wars in other countries where Christians are actually being persecuted? Their homes are actually being burnt down. Beloved, we know that in Bible prophecy, no such thing is going to happen in America. We know that there's not going to be a communist Marxist. We know that from Bible prophecy. And yet there are many of us among us now who have bought into this fear, this paranoia that is the very thing that is moving apostate Christianity to become the persecuting spirit that it is.

So, so what happens is we they are creating this false prophecy which we call esquetology. Esquetology. Let me let's go back to the screen for a moment and um here's what I want you to remember. I want you to remember a a little acronym. Let's go to screen. Please check this out. right. False esquetology appearing real. The acronym is fear. false esquetology appearing real. Kind of like a false spirit of prophecy. Isn't that interesting? A false spirit of prophecy based on fear, false esquetology appearing real.

And it is this false esquetology appearing real. if we don't do something. In fact, let me go back and I'll show you where Ellen White actually says, "The teachings of religious leaders have opened the door to infidelity, to spiritualism, and to contempt for God's law. And upon these leaders rest a fearful responsibility for the iniquity that exists in the Christian world. Yet this very class put forth the claim that the fastspreading corruption is largely attributable to the desecration of the so-called Christian Sabbath and that enforcement persecution y'all enforcement of Sunday observance would greatly improve the morals of society.

This claim is especially urged in America where the doctrine of the true Sabbath has been most widely preached. Do y'all see this? You know who's causing all this trouble in America? It's those enemies out there. And unless we do something, unless we take hold of the government, they are going to destroy America. And so the false esquetology appearing real fear is embraced. And this is what leads, this is what leads, go back to the screen to 13:15. Revelation 13:15. And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast would both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.

And he caus all all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand or in their forehead. In other words, beloved, it is the spirit of paranoia. The the communists are coming to get us. the the the Marxists are coming to get us. The el the homosexuals are coming to get us. It is a spirit of paranoia that will lead that will lead to the spirit of persecution just like it did in heaven. All in the name of survival. All based upon a self centered fear. Jeremiah 12 verse 5 says this.

If thou has run with the footmen and they have wearied thee, how then can thou contend with horses? And if in the land of peace were you trusted? The land of peace. Y'all, that doesn't sound like China to me. That doesn't sound like Russia to me. Where is the land of peace? If in the land of peace, wherein you trusted they wear thee, they made us wear masks. They stopped us from going to church for a few months. The LGBTQ people did this. They're getting married. If in the land of peace wherein you trusted, they wearied thee, how then shalt thou do in the soiling of the Jordan?

And here's what Adam Clark says on this comment on this on this verse. If thou has run with the footmen, if the smallest evils to which thou art exposed cause thee to make so many bitter complaints, how wil thou feel in the course of the prophetic ministry, thou shalt be exposed to much greater from from enemies much more powerful. Footmen may here be the symbol of common evil events, horsemen of evils much more terrible. If you sunk under small difficulties, what will you do when the great ones come?

Beloved, the way American Christianity is acting, there are people in other countries who wish that the persecution was they made me bake a cake. But that's not happening in other countries. Here we are in America, the land of the free, but embracing a fear false esquetology appearing real. And it's moving the Christian world to a place now where they can blatantly look at injustices that are going on and literally not even bat an eye because it's all for the greater good. So the name of this message was we have a spirit of we have a sop problem in the church.

So come on let let let's go back to the screen and I want you to notice with me Revelation 12:1 17. Revelation 12:1 17. So the Bible says here, "And the dragon was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." So we understand what this means now, right? We know that the dragon is going to turn the spirit of paranoia upon the church, upon the woman. Are you put a five in the chat if you're with me so far, beloved?

Because this is where this message is going. If the dragon operated through paranoia in heaven, which then led to persecution, if he's doing it through the lamblike beast that speaks as a dragon, we know that when he ultimately turns this wrath on the woman to cause her to be persecuted, it will be because of paranoia. He will turn the paranoia against the woman. The woman is a cult. The woman is dangerous. The woman is blasphemous. The woman is teaching that that Satan is our sinbearer. the woman uh uh uh does not believe in in in in assurance of salvation.

So you you are hearing these things now and doesn't it seem to you that these things are becoming more and more common? Like it's just like you go on YouTube and and all these videos now it almost seems like people know if they put our Adventist occult, they're going to get views. And so you can begin to see this in the Adventist critics. Whoa. We can see Satan turning the spirit of paranoia against God's end time church as the Bible prophesied. In fact, at the end of time, we're going to be called all kinds of things by the whole world.

The spirit of paranoia will be upon them. These are the enemies of God. These are the ones who are causing the problems in the world. It is the spirit of paranoia that is going to lead to the spirit of persecution. Are you with me? So, so we we see these attacks coming from outside the church. But beloved, lo and behold, lo and behold, could it be possible that the devil is even attacking the woman from the inside? So that Even now on the inside, church. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yes. We have an SOP problem, church.

And the SOP problem that we have is the spirit of paranoia, the spirit of distrust, the spirit of discontent, the spirit of the fear of being deceived. We are so afraid of being deceived that we're looking out for all kinds of enemies to the point where we no longer listen and follow the spirit of prophecy. No, we've exchanged the spirit of prophecy in the name of the spirit of prophecy, but we are now embibing in the spirit of paranoia. We are now embibing in this spirit of distrust among our own brethren and we're mer this is being merchandised in church where it is now popular and cool and and the in thing and and the present truth thing to be like yeah the church is people just the church is The church isn't the organization, it's the people.

Go look at what Ellen White said about the organization of the Seventh Day Adventist Church. Go look at what Ellen White said about how God moved upon them when the back after 1844 where Adventists were fearful of organizing because they looked at organization as Babylon. And look at what the Lord inspired the prophet to write about that fear saying, "No, no, no, no. God desires organization." The church is the organization and the organization is the church. It is one thing and the people in the organization don't all make up the church.

But God has an organized movement and now it's just flippant to say, "Oh yeah, because why?" Because we have we have gotten used to embibing in paranoia. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, man. Yo, I'm telling you, you know what they're doing. You know what they're doing here. You know what they're doing there. And we're Look what just as David as Saul eyed David, we have become bent on eyeing other people. We eye each. We eye. We're in the same church. I'm eyeing you because I think you're up to something evil.

I think it's up to something no good. I think you're up to something corrupt in our own church. That evil eye, it could be from you to the GC. It could be from you to your elder. Oh man, my elders, the elder, they they no good. It could be from you to another member of the church. She's up to no good. He's up to no good. There something's going on there. And and we embibbe in this spirit of paranoia, this spirit of fear, selfentered fear. Come on, let's read a couple quotes here. We almost done.

Let's read a couple quotes here. Check this out, y'all. All who wish, you see it on the screen. All who wish to draw off from the body of Christ. There we go. All who wish to draw off from the body will have opportunity. Something will arise to test everyone. The great sifting time is just before us. The jealous and the faultf finding. Listen y'all, we have people and ministries based on faultf finding. Faultf finding ministries who are watching. Let's go back. who are watching for evil. Highlight that y'all.

Who are watching for evil will be shaken out? Watching for evil, pastor. But aren't we supposed to watch for evil? Beloved, y'all need to understand what she's saying here because she says the faultf finding. That sounds like a righteous thing. Man, you know what? I caught the fault there. I see what that person did wrong there. I caught the fault. She says the faultf finding. And those that are watching for evil, the evil eye, I'm watching. I saw what they did. I saw what they see what the leadership is doing there.

Those who are watching for evil will be shaken out. I didn't say that. The spirit of prophecy said that those who have the spirit of paranoia in the place of the spirit of prophecy will be shaken out. Let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. Let's go back to the screen. The time of peril is now upon us. It can no longer be spoken of as in the future. And the power of every mind sanctified to the master's work is to be employed not to be not hedged up not hedged up the way before the message God sends to his people but to labor unitedly in preparing a people to stand in the great day of God.

It is not the inspiration from heaven that leads one to be suspicious, watching for a chance and greedily seizing upon it to prove that those brethren who differ from us in some interpretation of scripture are not sound in the faith. watching greedily to seize upon something to prove, see they're not really faithful. See, they're not really the re See, they're not really the the remnant of the remnant. Beloved, it is the same spirit of Satan in heaven that leads us to turn our weapons upon the church or to turn our weapons upon others in the church in the name of present truth.

Let's go back. Y'all need to see more of this. Watch this. Let's go back. There is danger that this course of action will produce the very result assumed. And to a great degree, the guilt will rest upon those who are watching for evil. paranoia, the watching for evil, the sharpness of eyesight to detect a moat in another's eye is evidence that you have a beam in your own eye. Everything may not be done in just the way you suppose that that that you would have done it. But if you were in mind and heart and character submitted to the control of the spirit of God, you would see that the Lord's way and his thoughts are much above your way and your thoughts as the heavens are higher than the earth.

Here's another one. You have strengthened a spirit of evil speaking of watching for evil. Let me say it again, y'all. Sometimes as Adventists, we we pride ourselves on watching for evil and everything becomes evil. If a brother is preaching and happens to do say something like, "I love you." They'll be like, "Look at this picture thumbnail. Worshiping the devil." Really, y'all? Really? We can get so caught up in the evil eye everything becomes evil. And when everything becomes evil, beloved, to you, it is an evidence that the enemy of God is working through you because that same spirit of suspicion is now turned against everybody.

And you're looking you're looking for something to prove that you are better than everyone else around you. You are truly the remnant of the remnant because you and only you. You're trying to find a way to justify why God loves you better than everybody else. This is why Ellen White warns against this watching for evil. Watching for evil. Come on, let's go back to the screen. We're almost there, y'all. We're almost done. I I hope you understand now the serious SOP problem, spirit of paranoia, where everybody is evil and everything is evil and they're out to get you and the church is the and the conference is this and the GC is this and all this evil.

It's just so righteousness. Come on. Here's the bomb. Here's the bomb, y'all. Listen to the bomb. Satan contrives through evil angels to form an alliance with professedly pious men and thus to leaven the church of God. Fallen men and fallen angels are through apostasy in the same confederacy league to work against good. They unite in a desperate companionship. Satan knows that if he can induce men as he induced angels to join in rebellion under the guise of servants of God, he will have in them his most successful allies in his enterprise against heaven under the name of godliness.

He can inspire them with his own. Put that word in the chat for me you guys. With his own what? Accusing spirit and charge them with evil. They are his trained detectives. Detectives. I was researching and I discovered I discovered how wicked our church. I discovered how how wicked our leadership is. And you know what's crazy, you guys? All kinds of offshoot movements, all kinds of 7day Adventist offshoot movements are taking the opportunity to be like, "And here's why the church is an apostasy because they believe in the Trinity now."

See that? And that's why all this other stuff is happening. anything that they're clinging on to, any any any hobby, anything that they, okay, this is my thing and here's why the church is an apostasy because they don't agree with me on this thing. You guys, it doesn't matter what the thing is. Please understand that. You're seeing this attack on the woman from outside the church and from inside the church. And the one thing they all have in common is an attack on God's movement. And I would just say we need to be very careful, very careful.

It might be the popular thing to do. It might be the popular thing to do among our particular audiences, but you guys, your audiences can't save you. The people who follow you can't save you. The people who cheer you on in what you're doing can't save you. the people in your church who who are backing you up. So, so, so yeah, go fight against, you know, the pastor or go fight against the elders or go fight against these people in the church because they can't save you. Be very careful you all. Saul thought he was doing good.

Saul thought he was right in his accusations. Come on, let's go back to the to the slide. Let me finish reading the quote. under the under the name of godliness he can inspire them with his own trait accusing them accusing spirit his own accusing spirit and charge them with evil are his trained detectives their work is to create feuds to make charges which create discord and bitterness among brethren that's their work. Don't come at me with who you talking about, pastor. I'm just saying look at the fruit.

I don't care who it is. If the work is causing dissension is the if the work is to create discord and bitterness among brethren to set tongues in active service to Satan to seow seed of dissension by watching for evil and speaking of that which will create discord. Go argue with Ellen White. You can't argue with her because she's in the grave. Beloved, we have an SOP problem. And what I want you to understand is that an SOP problem, a a problem of paranoia will ultimately always lead to a spirit persecution.

Listen, listen. Revelation 19:10, listen to what the Bible says here. Revelation 19:10. The Bible says, uh, "And I fell at his feet, uh, to worship him." There we go. I fell at his feet to worship him, and he said unto me, "See thou do it not. I am thy fellow servant and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Meaning the spirit of prophecy is the testimony of Jesus. Jesus is testifying to us of his own word. And his testimony is he tells us don't fear.

Perfect love casts out fear. His testimony is I'm telling you what is coming to pass. So don't get paranoid. Don't get off track about, oh, this is going to happen and this is going to happen. Don't start getting paranoid. Don't start buying into the narratives that you're watching. Don't start buying into this whole, oh, the the new Do you know? Do you know? Listen to me, y'all. Do you know that this whole United Nations is evil? Do you know where that came from? That did not come from Bible prophecy, y'all.

The whole idea of United Nations being evil and and and and the United Nations going to do this and that that comes from a Sunday Christian version of Bible prophecy. Go pick up some of those conspiracy books like uh the the the New World Order 666. You know, y'all may have remembered those books that came out in the 80s. And all of those books unanimously were talking about how the UN is evil and how they're going to bring in this Marxist, communist, anti-Christian, anti-godly. And beloved, when I hear Adventists talking about the evils of the UN, what where is the UN in Bible prophecy?

I didn't know the Bible prophecy talked about an organization called the United Nations. Really? An organization called United Nations going to do X, Y, and Z? The Bible speaks about Rome and it speaks about apostate Protestantism and that these two powers will will will will embrace the whole world. This idea of the United Nations and and the coming new world order where the United Nations is running things, beloved, that is Sunday prophecy. Yes, Daniel chapter 2 talks about the breakdown of Rome and all those things, but Daniel chapter 2 does not talk about an organization called the United Nations.

And so many of us are just swerving into these this this what is not prophecy, what is not biblical prophecy. And we don't even know that we're mingling we are mingling the wine of Babylon, their false prophecies, and working it into our own prophecies. And what we get is something deluded to where to today we don't even want to talk about project 2025. We just want to downplay that all day long and let's talk about something else. Let's talk about the pope. But let's not talk about Christian nationalism.

The Bible says in 1 John chapter 4:17, "Herein is our love made perfect that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is in the world, so are we." There is no fear in love, but perfect love cast out fear. Beloved, we should have no reason to be paranoid. We should have no reason to be paranoid. We should fear God, not be paranoid. And that's what's happening. We are we're embracing the paranoia of apostate Protestantism and it's coming into our church. So now we're just as apostate Protestantism is saying our government is corrupt.

So now we have Adventists saying our government is corrupt. We've got blinds. The Bible says in Mark 4:40, Jesus speaking to his disciples on the boat, he said unto them, remember that whole storm thing? Remember that they were afraid. He said unto them, why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? Fear eliminates faith. Fear eliminates faith. So when you're fearing, you blind to what God has said is going to you you begin to lose lose that that spiritual eyesight, that spiritual vision.

And now in acting out in paranoia, you're beginning to see everything and everyone around you is evil. Everything is corrupt. Everything is evil. And man, do we have a problem with this at 7th Day Adventist. May God help us to get rid of the the spirit of persecution. We will be right there with the whole world, persecuting the people we once stood with. That's where this will lead to. And may God help us to embrace the actual spirit of prophecy. May God help us to embrace what God has said is coming, to embrace the testimony of Jesus.

And to pray, Lord, create in me a clean heart. Renew in me a right spirit. Help me not to have this spirit of the spirit of persecution. Help me not to to to watch for evil. God. Beloved, this sermon is not about closing a blind eye to evil. Oh, you know what? You see something that is that is obviously wrong and you don't see anything. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the spirit of par paranoia. I'm talking about the spirit of accusation. And beloved, as long as as we have that spirit of paranoia against our own, the spirit of prophecy says you will be shaken out.

You will, not you might, you will be shaken out. May we learn to watch for Jesus and not watch for evil. May we learn to watch for Jesus and not for evil. Yes, beloved, we need watchmen on the wall. Watchmen who will watch when the sword is coming. When the sword is coming from outside because that's where the sword is coming from. God is not sending swords inside his church. As feeble and defective as his church may be, it is still the apple of eye. All right, y'all. We're going to go to our last slide.

This is our last slide, and this may be the most important one. going to share tonight. Look at what it says. The first thing recorded in scripture history after the fall was the persecution of Abel. And the last thing in scripture, prophecy, is the persecution against those who refuse to receive the mark of the beast. We should be the last people on the earth to indulge in the slightest degree the spirit of persecution against those who are bearing the message of God to world. This is the most terrible feature uncristlikeness.

Listen to this y'all. that was manifested that has manifested itself among us since the Minneapolis meeting. She's talking about 1888. And she's talking about the the the the the church or the the people in the church turning their swords on one another. You guys, we have enough persecution that is going to be coming from without the church. engaged in persecuting in the church in turning our swords on one another in the church. She says the very first thing in scripture is a persecution of Abel by brother.

The last thing in scripture is a persecution of God's people by the world. And then she says, the last thing we need to do, put it back up on the screen. I need you to see this SOP. The last thing she says, we should be the last people on the earth to indulge in the slightest degree of the S spirit O of P persecution against those who are bearing the message of God to the world. God has not called us to bear a message to anybody else but the world. But beloved, when we turn our swords on one another, when we when we begin to turn our swords on the church, oh, the church is corrupt.

Oh, the leadership is this. Oh, the general conference. Oh, oh, the church is is no longer the organization. It's the people. We are exhibiting the very thing that the actual spirit of prophecy warns us against. My prayer, my prayer, our prayer should be that as a church, we can stop turning our weapons on ourselves. We can stop with the spirit of suspicion. We can stop trying to watch for evil to see who is and who isn't and begin to focus on the mission God has called us to focus on, which is the preaching of the three angels messages to the world.

May God help us to reject the SOP, the spirit of paranoia, the spirit of uh uh um of controversy, conspiracy. May God help us to reject the spirit of persecution. May God help us to reject the spirit of pride. May God even help us to reject the spirit of politics that has entered into the church that is now calling the three angels messages simply political. May God help us to embrace the actual spirit of prophecy and teach what we have always believed and direct our message to who it needs to be directed to.

Lord, create in me a clean heart. create in us clean hearts that we're no longer looking watching for evil in other people ready to rejoice over the evil that we see ready to broadcast the evil that we see ready to to to to say see I told you Lord help us to reject the spirit of paranoia the spirit of persecution the spirit of pride. Father, Lord, we thank you for speaking to us today. Lord, please rid your church of this counterfeit spirit of pro, spirit of of h of paranoia, spirit of uh persecution and even a false spirit of prophecy where we have taken on the prophecy of the world, taken on the prophecy of apostate Christianity and mingled it with the genuine truth.

Please Lord heal us. We are Leodysia for a reason. Heal us Lord that we that we may be about your business. This is my prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Man, I want to thank you.