Okay, let's pray and let's get into the word. Heavenly Father, I want to ask your blessing upon your people. Lord, send your angels to give us understanding. This we pray in Jesus name. Amen. Daniel chapter 12. Daniel 12 beginning with verse one. And the Bible says, "And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people. And there shall be a time of trouble such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time, and at that time thy people shall be delivered, everyone that shall be found written in the book."

Verse three, they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever. Verse four, but thou, oh Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book, even to the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased. Verse 10, many shall be justified and made or purified and made white and tried, and the wicked, or but the wicked shall do wickedly, and none of the wicked shall understand, but the wise shall understand.

How many of you want to be among the wise at the end of time? Amen. Beloved, the Bible tells us that the wise will understand the book of Daniel. And for many of us, the book of Daniel is just that mystery. I I don't get it. I can't comprehend it. I don't understand what these uh things are talking about. And I've been to the seminars and I've been to our meetings, but I still can't get it. Well, today I hope to juice the book of Daniel so that you will never forget it. The Bible tells us that God's people will understand at the end of time will will.

You should be excited. I've learned that in Adventism the new excitement is silence. So, I'm in the right place. The Bible tells us Jesus himself says that I am the center of the scriptures. He says the scriptures testify of me. And I believe that when we approach the book of Daniel, we should approach it in this sense. Jesus says all the scriptures testify of him. Let me give you one example quickly. Even in those places where we think Jesus is not, there he is. Ellen White actually tells us that Christ is on every page of the Bible.

There's a story in the Old Testament of a man by the name of David who commits adultery and and has uh uh Basheba's husband Uriah killed. know that story. And the Bible tells us that that as uh uh uh David thinks he gets away with this, but the prophet comes to him and says uh you have sinned. Remember, Bath Sheba is pregnant. Yes. And and and so David repents. Praise God. However, however, uh the prophet says to him, "You you will live because you repented, but the child that you have that your your wife that Basheba is going to have is going to die."

Unfair story. How many of you say unfair story? Yes. Haven't you read that story before and said, "Wow, why would God punish the child?" So, listen, we don't know who this child is. The child doesn't have a name. All we know is that it was a male child, meaning the child was the son of David. I'm going to wait, man. I'm just going to wait, man. The son of David was brought into this world because of someone else's sin. And and died that someone else might live. Christ, beloved, is the center of the scriptures.

Amen. And the same is true in the book of Daniel. So, let's go through the book of Daniel very quickly. We're just going to juice it down and we're just setting up for what I'm actually going to talk about. But let's consider Daniel. Daniel uh is a man who was brought into captivity not because of his own sin. Yeah. Okay. Oh yeah. Silence. Yeah. Yeah. Daniel was was was a fellow slave with his brothers even though we know that it was not Daniel was not a s Daniel did not sin. And it was not Daniel's sins that that uh led him to Babylon, but or led him to into captivity, but he was actually a captive with his brothers though there's no recorded sin of him.

That reminds me of Jesus who came to this world though he had no sin on him to be brothers with us. In Daniel chapter 1, you remember that Daniel's first temptation appetite. Let me ask you, when Jesus comes on the scene, when he begins his ministry, what is his first temptation? In Daniel chapter 2, we have this image of a man who who the Bible says he's destroyed by a stone being dashed against the foot. See that those that image in Daniel 2 is really symbolic of the kingdoms of this world which Satan operates.

And Satan understood that when Jesus came to this world, he was coming to destroy that kingdom. So, you know what Satan does in the second temptation? He says, um, "Hey, throw yourself down. You will not surely dash your foot against a stone. I'm going to try to destroy you before you can destroy my kingdom." In Daniel chapter 3, Daniel is invited to bow down. Y'all not feeling me that bow down and worship, but Daniel refuses. Hm. Rings a bell to me. I don't know about you. In Daniel chapter 4, uh there's a dream of of Nebuchadnezzar has this dream of this great big tree.

And the Bible says, literally says that the tree, its branches reached out into the heavens and all the files of the air lodge in that tree. Let me ask you a question. Does that term sound f does it sound like it's used anywhere else in the scriptures? Did Jesus himself describe the kingdom of heaven like a great big tree whose branches reach out and all the birds of the air lodge in that tree? You see, Nebuchadnezzar felt that his tree, his kingdom was a kingdom that was kingdom that was going to last forever.

But he was wrong. That was not the tree. There was another tree coming. There was another tree coming. And that tree, the cross of Calvary, represents the kingdom of heaven. That's the tree that will stand forever. Amen. In Daniel chapter 5, you know the story. Cyrus uh uh is about to take over the Babylonian Empire. And what's interesting about this is that Cyrus, the way that he conquered the kingdom is that he dried up the deep. The Bible says he dried up the deep and basically uh hh uh descended into the riverbed to open the gates in order to set the captives free.

Y'all not Oh. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's right. Because Jesus did the same thing. By the way, Cyrus is a type of Jesus. You know what happens in Daniel chapter 6, right? Daniel is put in a lion's den. A stone is rolled over the tomb. Y'all not feeling me? With a seal. Huh? Daniel's not supposed to come out of that. But guess what? He comes out. Wow. Wow. Who would have thought that Daniel chapters 1-6 reflect or a or a are a shadow of the events of Christ's life. We get to Daniel chapter 7 and we have the 1260 years.

We get to Daniel chapter 8 and we have the 2300 day prophecy. In other words, beloved, if you just kind of remember the book of Daniel, what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to help you to to see the book of Daniel in a little different light to help you to understand it. I don't have time to go through the rest of this. Let me share one more thing with you very quickly before we begin to put this together. Let's go back to Daniel chapter 1 because we just seen that Christ is is a is a a shadow in the book of Daniel.

But now we're going to see that you are in the book of Daniel. You you see in Daniel chapter 1 uh we have uh uh Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and Daniel. And what is the king trying to do? He's trying to get them to eat and drink what, right? Eat his food and drink his his wine. Um what's the name of the kingdom? So, whose wine is it? Okay. So, in Daniel chapter 1, we have the king of Babylon trying to get God's people to drink the wine of Babylon. Yeah. But they don't. And as a result of not drinking the wine of Babylon, they are 10 times wiser.

Y'all not feeling me, man. Y'all not feeling me. Will there be an end time people who are 10 times wiser because they refuse to drink the wine of Babylon? Yeah. Yeah. Daniel chapter 2. As a result of them refusing to drink the wine of Babylon, the Bible says they preach a message to Nebuchadnezzar that your kingdom Babylon is going to fall. Y'all not feeling me? In Daniel chapter 3, the king Bab the king of Babylon is angry. And so in response to this message that Babylon will fall, what does he do?

He sets up an image and commands all to bow down. Are you following this? You see, when he does this, then Babylon will have fallen. Daniel chapter 4. when or Babylon's sins will have reached unto heaven. I should say Daniel chapter 4. That tree whose height reached unto heaven. And when her sins reach unto heaven, guess what? She will fall. Just as in Daniel chapter 5. A and just as in Daniel chapter 6, there was a death decree issued for those who refuse to keep the law of the land. But fear not.

Daniel 7, the little horn will come to his end. Daniel 8, the sanctuary will be cleansed. Daniel 9, probation will close on those who reject the Messiah. Daniel 11, the king of the north will come to his end. And Daniel 12, Michael will stand up and the dead shall rise. Let's do another little practice very quickly. Um because there's something else you need to understand about the book of Daniel and those are the time prophecies and there are basically three time prophecies in the book of Daniel.

There is Daniel, there is a 70we prophecy, there is a 1260 and there is a 2300. Now how many of you have difficulty understanding or remembering these prophecies? Let me see your hands. Be honest. All right. I know a lot more hands wanted to go up, but here's how I want you to remember it. In Daniel, the 70we prophecy is really about the coming of Jesus Christ. Very simple. Amen. Jesus comes to Jerusalem. Jesus comes to his temple. That's what Malachi 3:1 says. The Lord whom you seek shall suddenly come to his temple.

This is a reflection of the 70we prophecy. So I want you to personalize the 70we prophecy. When Jesus, the seven prophecy points to Jesus coming to his people. Amen. How many of you have received Jesus into your heart? You are a 70 weaker. Did you catch that just now? Right. Jesus on a personal level has come to you. You've accepted him. Now you know that if you rejected him, what would happen? You you get what I'm saying? The same thing that happened to Israel in rejecting the literal coming of Christ is the same thing that happens to us if we reject Christ spiritually coming in our in our hearts.

Now what prophecy comes after the 70 weeks? The 1260. You know what the 1260 prophecy is about? It's about persecution. See many of us when we get baptized we think man it's going to be great. I have accepted the Lord and all things are going to be very good from now on. Little do you realize that after the 70 comes 1260. How many of you have experienced 1260? Are you with me? I'm just personalizing this for you. I'm not doing away with the actual meaning of the prophecy. I'm just trying to help you to kind of grasp the book a little bit easier so that when you go to study it, you have more anchor points that you can study it from.

All right. So, we know that there's a 1260, but God says, "Don't worry because just as I was with the woman in the wilderness during the 1260 feeding her and keeping her, so I will be with you." Because ultimately after the 1260, there is the 2300. And you know what the good news about the 2300 day prophecy is? The sanctuary. The sanctuary will be cleansed. Hold on. Where is the record of sin? It's in the temple, isn't it? The record of sin was in the temple. So God cleanses the record of sin from the temple.

The record of sin was in the temple. So when the sanctuary is cleansed, the record of sin, the record of sin, which is why Ellen White tells us there's coming a time where the righteous are trying to remember. Are you following me? And they cannot. Why? because the record of sin has been removed from the temple. Let's put this all together. Come with me to Daniel chapter 11. While we're turning there, this is what I want you to understand. I'm going to speak to you in in numerical language. When you accept Christ, you become a what?

70 weaker. And and Christ ultimately wants to lead you to become a 23 hunder. I just made that up. 2300er. Right now, when you are 2300er, your mission is to turn people who have not accepted Christ into 70 weakers. However, there are some who are already 70 weakers and love Jesus. They are just in the wrong 1260. All right. All right. So, our mission is to move them from 1260 to 23. All right. How many of you will never forget the 23, 1260 or Very good. Okay. Now, now Daniel 11, I'm going to show you.

How many of you ever tried to read through Daniel 11? All right. It's a very, very complicated chapter. But here's what we're going to do. We're going to juice Daniel 11 down for you right now. I'm not going to give you any answers as to what is what. I'm just going to show you just one simple thing. Okay. So in Daniel 11, you'll you'll notice that it begins uh with the Meo Persian Empire. Daniel 11:1 also I in the first year of Darius the me even I uh stood to confirm and to strengthen him. The vision of Daniel 11 begins with the Meo Persian Empire.

If you jump down with me to verse 23, verse 23. When you get there, just say amen. Amen. I'm sorry. Verse 22. The Bible says, "And with the arms of a flood shall they be overflown from before him, and shall be broken. Ya, also the prince of the covenant." Now, who does that sound like to you? The prince of the covenant. Prince of the covenant is Jesus Christ. So, I want you to watch this. In Matthew chap in Daniel 11:es 1 to23 you have a prophecy that begins with Meo Persia and takes us all the way to the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ.

Is there a prophecy that reminds you of that time period that would begin in the Meo Persian Empire and conclude with the coming of Christ and his death, burial, resurrection, etc. The 70 week prophecy. Very good. Very good. So, hey pastor, I didn't know that the 7we prophecy in shadow form is in Daniel 11, the first 23 verses or 22 verses. Now, in verse 23, and uh you know there is some uh some debate about this, but let me just share it anyway. In verse 23, the Bible says, "And after the league made with him, uh he shall work the seed for these four, he shall come up uh and shall become strong with a small people."

Now, when you hear something in in the book of Daniel that starts out small but grows big, starts out little but grows. What do you think of? You think of the little the little horn, right? So, so some believe that this is uh verse 23 is the little horn. I am one of them. Some dispute that. But let me just share this anyway. From verse 23 when you get to verse 40, verse 40 says, "And at the time of the end." Now, let me ask you a question. What do we understand as the time of the end? What when did that begin?

1798. So 1798 concludes the what prophecy? The 12 s. Very good. So watch this. Then from Daniel chapter 1 to 22, you have the 70 weeks. And then somewhere between verse 23 to 40, you evidently have the 1260, which means that the events that unfold from verses 40 all the way to Daniel 12:1 and 2 would encompass the 2300 day prophecy. How do you feel? Everybody okay? Yeah. What we just saw is is is simply that these three time prophecies help us to break down Daniel 11. That's all without any detail, without any whatever.

We've just seen, wow, these time prophecies are in Daniel 11, even though it's not written out 70 weeks or 1260 or 2300. Why? Because Daniel 11 is an amplification of that which comes before it. So in Daniel 11, we have the 70, the 1260, the 2300, which leads to Michael standing up. Now, all of that was preliminary stuff. We're about to get into the meat of the message this morning. And don't worry, I'm not going to hold you long. Daniel chapter 12, Michael stands up. How many of you believe that Michael is coming again?

You honestly believe that? Let me ask you a question. Have you ever laughed at the promises of God? Probably. How many of you believe Jesus is coming again? Some of you are laughing and you're looking at me dead serious like, "What in the world are you talking about, pastor?" Come with me. Genesis chapter 18. Genesis chapter 18. And I'm going to show you something that uh you'll be familiar with. In Genesis chapter 18, beloved, we have to know what we believe and why we believe it. Amen. In Genesis chapter 18, you find there the story of Abraham and Sarah.

And you'll remember that God visits Abraham and he visits him with two other uh uh angels. And the Bible tells us that they they speak to Abraham and then they tell Abraham uh in Genesis 18, "Hey Abraham, your wife Sarah is going to bear a child." And you know what Sarah does? She laughs. Now, she laughed in her heart. She didn't laugh out loud. Y'all not feeling me? She laughed in her heart. A and and and so God hears it because God hears all the and God said, "Why did she laugh?" And then Sarah hears, she's like, "Oh, I didn't laugh."

And he said, "No, but you did laugh. You will have a son." Who was that son? Isaac. You will have a son. Now, you got to understand why Sarah laughed because she had been uh it had been almost 25 years since the promise first came to her. You're going to have a son. And you can imagine on on on on the day she hears that, she's thinking, "Yeah, man. My my stomach is about to start forming." Woo! I'm about to have a baby. Eight months pass, no baby. But she's like, "Hey, I'm not worried. God is always on time."

Amen. Two years pass, not a problem. He is going to keep his word. Amen. 10 years, 15 years, 20 years. Listen, not only did Sarah laugh, but in the chapter before, God says to Abraham, "Abraham, you're going to have a son." And Abraham didn't even have the decency to laugh inside. He laughed outside. And then he says these words, listen carefully. Let Ishmael live forever. Listen carefully, guys. Abraham thought the promise was to be fulfilled through Ishmael. Please mark that down in your mind.

Mark it down. Come. So, I want to show you the context of this laughter. We're in Genesis chapter 19 or 18. This is where Sarah laughs in Genesis 18. Come back with me to Genesis chapter 1. In Genesis chapter 1, uh, uh, we have the introduction of, you know, the creation and then you have the fall of man. And then by the time we get to Genesis chapter 6, sin has become so bad that God is going to destroy the world. Yes. And so, how does he what does he do? He calls a man by the name of Noah. And he says to Noah, "Build an ark made of wood.

And you, this ark is going to be the salvation of those who choose it." So, so how long was Noah to preach? 120 years. The very first time prophecy in the Bible. Yeah, I feel that was about the coming was about a man who would be the salvation of the world by being lifted up on a piece of wood. Y'all not feeling me? above the earth. The name Noah means rest. Come unto me all you that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. Think about this. Is there another prophecy in the Bible that speaks of a probation for mankind in which a man would come be lifted up on wood above the earth and those who accept him would be saved or carry on and those who reject him would be cut off.

You know that's Genesis chapter 6, chapter 7, chapter 8 all cover the same thing. When we get to Genesis chapter 11, we now have this. It is a story of a flood. Not not the flood. Story of the tower of Babel. The tower of what everyone? Okay. Tell me about the tower of Babel. Oh, the the tower of Babel ascended where? To heaven. Does that remind you of any power? Are are you with me? Yeah. Yeah. Check this out, guys. So So there's another power in the B in the Bible called Babylon. Babylon is said to rule for how long?

The little horn is set to rule for how long? 1260 years. During this time, they're they are attempting to usurp the position of God. Now, now, now you got to follow this, guys. At the end of Daniel 11, listen carefully. You have Abraham being called I'm sorry, Genesis 11. You have Abraham being called out. Just give me a moment to be excited by myself. Okay. You have Abraham being called out of the Caldes. You know where that is? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I got to come down here and do this.

God says to Abraham, I'm calling you out of Babylon and you are going to produce a great multitude. No, no, no. Abraham, I'm calling you out of Babylon and you are going to produce a great multitude. Did God call an end time people out of Abraham to produce a great multitude? Okay. So Abraham, what is he waiting for? What was the promise to Abraham? So Abraham was promised uh a son. Abraham the promised son is coming. Abraham the promised son is coming. The one that was promised is coming. 7th Day Adventist 1844.

I've called you out of Babylon. Oh yeah. And Jesus is coming again. Amen. 1844. Jesus doesn't come. Not a problem. 1846. He's coming. Amen. 1848. Jesus coming again. Amen. 1890. 1920. 1990. No, no, no, no. 1999. Amen. Amen. Amen. 2001. Amen. 2018. No, no, no, no, no, no. Don't say amen. You want to know why? Because many of you are laughing. You're la you're laughing at me with working with these headphones. You're laughing Why? Because I've heard that all my Yeah, my parents thought that and their parents thought that and their parents' parents I'm a fifth generation Adventist, a sixth generation Adventist.

So, you know, you can't laugh out loud because that would be disrespectful. So, you just laugh inside, but you say amen. Beloved, listen to me. Jesus is coming again. Amen. G look look what what are the odds that in Genesis from Genesis chapter 1 all the way to Genesis chapter 18 it's as though God foreshadowed our very movement. But wait in case some of you are still like well I don't know. Hold on. After God tells Abraham you will have a son. What does he do next? Wait. He says, "All right, Abraham.

Now, I'm going to investigate." I'm going down to Sodom and Gomorrah to investigate. Hold on. How many of them went to Sodom altogether? How many messengers? Three. Yeah. God says to Abraham, "I'm going to Sodom and Gomorrah because I'm going to investigate." And you know what Abraham does? Abraham doesn't say, "Yes, get those wicked people. Woohoo." No. He goes, "Wait a minute. Wait a minute, Lord. Lord, hold on." and he begins to intercede for the lost. Beloved, listen to me. If you want to know what we ought to be doing in this time of the three angels messages, in this time of the investigative judgment, what we ought to be doing is interceding for those who are lost while we wait for the coming Isaac.

Y'all not feeling me? You see beloved, listen to me. God has given us as a church the ministry of reconciliation. All right? But how can we reconcile others to God if we can't even reconcile among ourselves? Listen, does God follow his own advice? So if God had an issue with us, what would he do? Let us reason together. He would come himself. Did Jesus come here himself? Hey guys, I have a problem with you. You've sinned. And our response was, "Well, we don't like you. We're going to crucify you."

So, we crucify him. 70we Well, you know how it goes, right? If you come and they don't listen to you, what do you do? You send or bring two witnesses. [Music] Did God send two witnesses in Revelation 11? A prophecy that we know at the 1260. Did God send two witnesses? And what did they do with the two witnesses? They rejected them. So, you know what God's last hope for the world is? He raised up a church. And he said, "Listen, I need you to go to my people and tell them, preach the everlasting gospel to them."

Beloved, how can we do that if we're not even able to reconcile among ourselves? Listen, the Bible says that Michael's going to stand up. You got to follow this. Do you know that the only time Michael is used in the scripture, you know, Michael is only used four times in the scripture. Did you know that? Twice in the book of Daniel, Daniel chapter 10 and Daniel chapter 12. Right before Daniel chapter 11 and right after Daniel chapter 11. The other two times, check this out guys. The other two times the name Daniel is used, Michael, I'm sorry, is used is in da in Revelation 12:7 where Michael fights against the dragon and in Jude where Michael approaches Satan for the body of Moses.

Check this out. In Daniel 12:1, Michael stands up and he's about to come. In Jude, Michael is taking the body of Moses to heaven. Michael is the name that is used when Jesus goes to battle personally against Satan. So, why do you think Michael is used in Daniel 12? Why does Michael stand up in Daniel chapter 12? May I share with you why? Come back with me to Daniel 12. in fact, let's not go to Daniel 12. I'm going to show you something else. Come with me to Isaiah, the book of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 40 65.

Isaiah the 65th chapter. And while you're turning there, Isaiah 65:15. I want you to go there and I want you to hold your place there. The parable of the 10 virgins. How many of you want to be wise, right? What does the Bible say? The wise will do what? Will understand. Listen, guys. When do the 10 virgins wake up? When do they wake up? They wake up at at midnight. So, what does midnight represent? It is the darkest hour of earth's history. It is the hour that leads Michael to do what? Stand up.

Now remember, Michael is the name that is used when when Jesus is about to confront Satan personally. Michael only appears when it's to confront Satan personally. So if Michael stands up, what does that indicate is going on on earth? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Let me ask you something. Beautiful situation is Mount Zion, the city of the great king on the sides of the north. Who is the true king of the north? Who's the true king of the north? Jesus. The true king of the north, Jesus, stands up when a counterfeit when I was uh before I became an Adventist, I used to believe in the secret rapture.

And um I wasn't a Christian, but I knew about the rapture. I didn't believe in it. I knew about it. I said to myself, I don't really believe in God, but if I see people disappearing, then I'll know it's time to get ready and I'll have seven years. Guess what? Adventists have their own version. See, Adventists think that what we're watching for is a Sunday law. I'mma party in the clubs, do my thing, and if I see Congress starting to talk about a Sunday law, then I'll know. And you know how long Congress takes to do anything.

So you're like, "Yeah, okay. They still No, no, no. That's not what happens in the parable, beloved. It's something that catches everyone. Even the wise are caught off guard." You see, beloved, Satan does not announce when he comes. And when he comes, Ellen White says it will be the greatest delusion that mankind has ever seen. And listen to me. Hold on, guys. Remember, Abraham thought that the promise was to be fulfilled in Ishmael. Ishmael came before Isaac. May I dare say that there will be seventh day Adventists who will accept the counterfeit instead of the genuine.

You say, "Pastor, that's not that's not possible." Cuz we know his feet don't touch the ground. We got it. No, no, no, no, no. Beloved, listen to me. By the way, Loly tells us that when Satan appears, it will be more majestic than anything human eyes have ever seen. The Bible says in in Isaiah 65:14 that when Jesus comes, he comes with a fire and with chariots and a whirlwind. Listen carefully, guys. He comes When Jesus comes, it's with fire and chariots and a whirlwind. So, when Satan comes, guess what?

what he's going to try to do. He's going to try to imitate that. You think, "Oh, I got it." You remember John the Revelator? John the Revelator in Revelation 19 is talking to an angel. And this angel is so glorious to John that John the Revelator, the same guy who knows that you don't bow down before angels, is so overtaken by the glory that he his knees begin to buckle. John the Any Any Any Any Any Any Any Any Any Any Any Johns in here? Any John the Revelators in here?" John the Revelator, the guy that knew Jesus, his knees begin to buckle and you think, "Oh, his feet don't touch the ground."

You think he got it, two chapters later, he does the same thing. Beloved, listen to me. If you don't know what you believe and why you believe it, how do you think you're going to do when when when Jesus comes again? Not only does he come by himself, because you got to you got to hear this, love. In the book of Revelation, we're told that three unclean spirits like frogs go out to deceive the whole world. Anyone want to know why the Bible uses these this term frogs? Let me tell you why. Where do frogs where do the where else do we read about frogs in the Bible?

in the Exodus. And you remember that the magicians were able to counterfeit the miracle of the serpent and then the water and then the frogs. And the frogs were the last miracle that they could counterfeit. It was the last miracle that they could Beloved, when Satan comes again, we are told that it is the crowning act. It is the last miracle. And it is that miracle. Listen carefully. How many of you ever wonder how in the world is the whole world going to come together to keep Sunday? How are atheists and radical Islamists and Buddhists and Hindus and agnostics, you know what it would take to bring the whole world together?

It would take a miracle. Because listen to me, for an atheist, seeing is believing. And when Satan comes, not only when Satan comes, when Satan comes, guess what else we're told? It will be made to appear that the dead are among us. So, let me ask you, how are you going to do if you are struggling with what you believe now? If you're laughing in your heart now, if you're not sure now, how are you going to do when Satan himself appears as Jesus? And not only that, but we're told that the dead will be like, "Oh, yeah, you were wrong.

Your pastors were wrong." How you going to do when your Adventist relatives appear to you, we got it all wrong. You see, beloved, listen to me. and Satan comes again. The Bible tells us that that or in in great controversy tells us that the world will be saying this is the long expected millennium. Check this out guys. The millennium, you know what happens in the millennium? Jesus gives judgment unto his saints. No, not amen for this one. Because Jesus is going to give judgment unto his saints. Who are the saints?

When Jesus comes again as Satan, he's going to give judgment to the saints. And the wicked will be those who do not go along. And if you don't know who you are, if you don't know your identity in Christ, if you don't know why you believe what you believe, let me tell you, the overwhelming delusion, as Ellen White calls it, will sweep you up. You want to know why the Bible says it'll be a time of trouble such as never was. That's why beloved, if you don't know what you believe and why you believe it, if you don't have the oil in your vessel so that you can see you have light, how will you do when this delusion takes the whole world?

Listen, I'm getting ready to close. When I was younger, I moved from Jamaica to New York and I moved by an airport. My my my family actually lived by an airport. I remember the first time that I went there and I was outside and I heard this plane coming over the and I thought the house was going to like break apart. I'm 6 years old and I'm looking around and no one's moving, no one's responding, nothing. And I'm like, did they not just hear that incredibly loud noise? But you know what happened?

They had gotten used to that noise. It had become white noise. It had become white noise. And beloved, for many of us, these things we've been hearing year after year has become So that we no longer take it seriously. We laugh. We don't study anymore. We're not really like, you know, whatever. Let's just hear something that's going to like, you know, ease us or whatever. Listen to me. If we are not awake now, listen. Listen guys, you don't prepare for a marathon on the day of a marathon. And that's what many of us are doing.

We're thinking, "Oh, we're going to have time, whatever." When this thing happens, it will hit as an overwhelming surprise. It will catch everyone off guard. And beloved, if you're not preparing now, you do not prepare for a marathon on the day of the marathon. That's what we would call stupidity. And this is exactly what the 10 virgins, the five foolish virgins do. They wait. They chill. They hang out. And then when it's too late, they're like, "Give us of the oil." But you know what? They end up getting foreign oil.

Strange oil. It's not the Holy Spirit. Because they end up being deceived. Beloved, Jesus is coming again. Do you believe it? I don't know if that sound convincing or not. Jesus is coming again. Do you believe it? God is calling a people to be ready. God is calling a people to be prepared. God is calling a people to remember that Michael will come. And those who understand, those that turn many to righteousness, will shine as the stars forever. If you're ready to shine, if you're ready to say, "Lord, Lord, no more.

I don't want to be one of those people who just I don't really know and understand. I want to understand. Take me deeper in your word. Help me to have a greater understanding." If that's your desire, I want to ask you to just stand where you are, Lord. Help me. Help me to be ready when you come again. Heavenly Father, I want to thank you Lord that you are coming again. I want to thank you that the soon return will redeem your people. That we will be in heaven with you. But Father, we know that a time of trouble is coming.

that in that time of trouble, it will be such a time as no other time in this world's history. Lord, help us not to be among those that are deceived, that are fooled, that are caught up by this counterfeit Christ. Lord, please make our footing on solid ground. Fill us, Lord. Fill us with your mercy, with your grace, with your presence. Cleanse our temples. And Lord, we thank you for coming to save us. This is our prayer. We pray it in the precious name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. You may be seated.