Amen. Amen. Uh happy Sabbath everyone. Welcome to Living Manor online. Uh we have a um uh by the grace of God uh a message that um is very needed and by the grace of God will bring dry bones together. Um praise God for that opening trailer and we are about to get into the word uh today. So, put a one in the chat if you are ready. Ready to uh to eat. The title of the message today. Left Jesus. Right Jesus. Right Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, please speak to your people in Jesus name we pray.

Amen. We're going to go to the screen. We'll go to our first slide. Um, please make sure that you share this link as we begin this message. Let people know that the sermon has begun and uh and that we're going to eat and um we're going to get into this word. Left Jesus, right? Jesus. In the book of first kings chapter 3 uh verse 5, the Bible records these words in Gibian. The Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, "Ask what I shall give thee." And Solomon said, "Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy, according as he as he has walked before thee in truth and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee."

And thou has given him, thou has kept for him this great kindness, that thou has given him a son to sit on his throne as it is this day. And now, oh Lord my God, thou has made thy servant king instead of David my father. And I am but a child. I know not how to go out or come in. And thy servant is in the midst of thy people, which thou hast chosen, a great people that cannot be numbered, nor counted for multitude. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and evil.

For who is able to judge this, thy so great a people? And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. And God said unto him, because thou hast asked this thing, and has not asked for thyself long life, neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies, but has asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment. Behold, I have done according to thy works. Lo, I have given thee a wise and understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee.

And I I've also given thee that which thou has not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all thy days. And if thou will walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did walk, then I will lengthen thy days. And Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And he came to Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and offered up a burnt offering, and offered peace offerings, and made a feast to all his servants.

We are living in a time in which wisdom is required. Wisdom has always been required for God's people. But especially as we come closer and closer to the second coming of the Lord, wisdom is more needed than ever. The Bible tells us in Daniel 12:3, for example, it says here, "Many will be and they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever." Daniel 12 10 or 12:10 rather says many shall be purified and made white and tried but the wicked shall do wickedly and none of the wicked shall understand but the wise shall understand.

We are living in a time where wisdom is needed. Wisdom allows us to discern between good and evil. You see Solomon in his prayer, he's asking the Lord for wisdom so that he can discern between good and evil. And in today's day, as evil is progressing, as evil is growing, we need wisdom to discern what is good and what is evil. Especially at the end of time where we understand that the greatest deception will be pulled upon the whole world. Spoken of in Revelation 13:14 where it says that this power deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast.

Saying to them that dwell on the earth that they should make an image to the beast which had a wound by the sword and did live. We understand here that whatever this power is which is ultimately a satanic power which will ultimately culminate with Satan himself appearing as Jesus. We are going to need wisdom to know the difference between goodness and error, between truth, light and darkness, between the real Jesus and the counterfeit Jesus. Wisdom will be required. And so the book of James chapter 1 tells us gives us encouraging words.

It actually says, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men libery and uprath not, and it shall be given him." Just as Solomon asked for wisdom, we too may ask for wisdom. And the Bible says that God will give it. The other reason wisdom is needed, we're told in Proverbsap 1:7, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction." Wisdom is going to be required not only for us to stand at the end of time. for us to be able to discern between that which is good and that which is evil.

But wisdom is the beginning of the fear of the Lord or the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge or wisdom. In order for us to stand in the last days, we're going to need wisdom. We're going to need wisdom. and put up one in the chat if you raise your hand today to say, "Lord, give me wisdom." Those who don't have wisdom, the Bible likens in Matthew 7 26 with these words. And everyone that hear these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a not a wise man, but a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand.

and the rain descended and the floods came and the winds blew and beat upon that house and it fell and great was the fall of it. We're going to need wisdom in the last days. Not only to discern the true Christ from the false Christ, but even to discern true Christianity from false Christianity. The Bible tells us uh in Matthew chapter chapter uh 7 that not all who say Lord Lord will enter into the kingdom of heaven. The Bible says that only those who do the will of God will enter into the kingdom of heaven.

So in essence in the last days especially there will be a counterfeit Christianity, a counterfeit Jesus. And if we don't have the wisdom, we will not be able to discern between that which is good and that which is bad, that which is light and that which is darkness. Are y'all with me so far? In light of this, the verses we just read in First Kings sets us up for the actual demonstration of why wisdom is needed. Let's go back to the screen and we will pick up where we left off. We're now in verse 16.

So remember Solomon has woken up. It was a dream that he had and in the dream God has given him wisdom. He goes to Jerusalem and he's standing he's standing uh um giving up or or they're giving up offerings to God as a celebration. The ark of the covenant is mentioned. Please keep that in mind. And then we read this event taking place. The Bible says, "Then came there two women that were harlots unto the king and stood before him. And the one woman said,"Oh my Lord, I and this woman dwell in one house, and I was delivered of a child with her in the house.

And it came to pass the third day after that I was delivered, that this woman was delivered also, and we were together. And there was no stranger with us in the house, save we too in the house." And this woman's child died in the night because she overlaid it. And she arose at midnight and took my son from beside me while thine handmmaid slept and laid it in her bosom and laid her dead child in my bosom. And when I arose in the morning to give my child suck, behold, it was dead. But when I considered it in the morning, behold, it was not my son which I did bear.

And the other woman said, "Nay, but the living is my son, and the dead is thy son." And this said, "No, but the dead is thy son, and the living is my son." Thus they spake before the king. Then said the king, "The one saith, this is my son that liveth, and thy son is dead." And the other saith, nay, but thy son is the dead, and my son is the living. And the king said, "Bring me a sword." And they brought a sword before the king. And the king said, "Divide the living child into two, and give half to the one, and half to the other."

Then spake the woman, whose the living child was unto the king, for her bowels yearned upon her son. And she said, "Oh my lord, give her the living child, and in no wise, slay it." But the other said, "Let it be neither mine nor thine, but divide it." Then said the king, Then the king answered and said, "Give her the living child, and in no wise slay it, she is the mother thereof." How many of you are familiar with this story? You've read this story before. You've heard this story before. In this story, two women come before the king.

And in the story, they both are claiming that the son belongs to them. Let me say it again. They both claim that the son the son the son belongs to them. And the one who is not telling the truth is acting so well that Solomon in all his wisdom cannot discern who is lying and who is telling the truth. So the woman says, "My child, I I went to sleep. This woman's child, she she she smothered her child basically and the child died." And then she switched her child for my child and this is an injustice.

And then they both start going before the king. No, the child is mine. No, the child is mine. And Solomon in all his wisdom cannot discern who is telling the truth and who is lying. Let's break this down, you guys. Are y'all ready? In this story, there are two women. Two women. I want you to notice with me in Ephesians chapter 5:2 where the Bible says, "Husbands, love your wives even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it." I want you to understand here that in the Bible, a woman is often used symbolically of a church.

And in light of that analogy, I'm going to bring that analogy into the text. And so what I'm sharing with you beloved today is I'm using this story to simply say to you that in the world there are two types of Christians. Two types of Christians both claiming that they possess the son. Now, we understand that these two women may very well represent two churches, two different types of churches, but for the sake of our study today, both the women were in one house. So, we're going to be talking just about in the church of God, there are two different types of Christians, both claiming to possess the Son.

When in reality, only one really possesses the Son. Only one really possesses Jesus Christ. And this brings us right back to the point we made a little bit earlier in Matthew 7:21 where the Bible says, "Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven. Many will say to to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works."

And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you that work iniquity. There are two types of Christians in the church and and both claim to have Jesus but only one really has Jesus. Only one really has the son. And remember now Solomon in all his wisdom cannot tell the difference. Both women seem sincere. Both women are probably weeping. Both women seem moved with passion for the son. But one is insincere. Let's talk about it. The woman that lost her child lost her child because she was careless.

The text says, let's read it again. And this woman's child died in the night because she overlaid it. She slept. She slept on Jesus. She slept on the son. She was careless with her relationship with Jesus. Many of us, beloved, are careless in our relationship with Christ. We're not taking care of him. We're not taking care of the relationship the way we are supposed to. And so what happens is while men slept, I mean, while we sleep, it is amazing. While we sleep, the enemy is able to come in and switch out Jesus's on us.

First Kings chapter 3 20. Let me read it again. And she rose at midnight and took my son from beside me while thine handmade slept and laid it in her bosom and laid her dead child in my bosom. And when I arose in the morning to give my child suck, behold, it was dead. But be but when I considered in the morning, bear. Beloved, we got to be careful. We have to be careful not to sleep on Jesus. Because if we do, I guarantee you the enemy will come in and switch him out. Switch out a counterfeit Jesus.

The enemy wants to switch Jesuses with us. Hold that thought for a moment. Hold that thought for a moment. First Kings chapter 3 23. And the other woman said, "Nay, but the living is my son, and the dead is thy son. And this said, no, but the dead is thy son, and the living is my son." Thus they spake before the king. Then said the king, the one said, This is my son that liveth, and thy son is dead. And the others said, "Nay, but thy son is the dead, and mine's the living." And the king said, "Bring me a sword."

And they brought a sword before the king. And watch this now. The king said, "Divide the living child in two and give half to the one The woman who's who did not have a relationship with the son responds, "Let it be neither mine nor thine, but divided." The woman who did not really possess the child was content to divide the body. Let me say it again. The woman who did not have a relationship with the child was cool was fine with half with dividing the body. Now what does dividing the body mean?

It means there would be a left side of the body and a right side of the body. Let's just look at it like that. A left side of the body and a right side of the body. Do you know that in the church today there are two Jesuses? There is the left Jesus and there is the right Jesus. Are you Are y'all ready? I'm not sure if you're ready for this, but you're going to have to be because we're dealing with some very unfortunate realities in the church, beloved. There is a left Jesus and there is a right Jesus.

Many Christians in the church possess the spirit of this woman who says, "Let it be divided. Let it neither be whole. Let it neither be mine or thine, but just let it be So let's talk about left Jesus first because many of us have accepted a left Jesus that that at first seems good. Let's talk about left Jesus. Come on. So left Jesus has some very good qualities. Left Jesus uh h uh lives on verses like these. Let's go to the screen. Luke 4:1 18 and 19. The spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor.

He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. Left Jesus loves the oppressed. Left Jesus is concerned about about the oppressed and about those who are captive. This is very appealing. Left Jesus is appealing. left. This is left Jesus's verse. Come on, let's go back to the screen. Let's go. Matthew chapter 25. Matthew 25:35 and 36. This is left Jesus for I was hungered and you gave me meat.

I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in. Naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came unto me. Left Jesus thrives on these verses. These verses are verses of compassion. left. Jesus thrives thrives on Matthew 25:40. In as much as you've done it unto the least of these, my brethren, you have done it unto me. Isaiah 1:17, learn to do well. Seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead the widow. Plead the widow.

How about this? Uh Micah 6:8. But he has shown thee, oh man, what is good. And what does the Lord require of thee but to do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God. There's Amos 5:24. Let judgment run down as waters and righteousness as mighty streams. And and James 1:27, pure religion and undefiled before God and the father is this to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction and to keep him himself unspotted from the world. And how about this one? Proverbs 31:8 and 9.

Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such are appointed to destruction. Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and the needy. Beloved, there are some good things about left Jesus. If I were to ask you right now, how many of you are liking how left Jesus sounds? How many of you would say, "Man, I love this Jesus." I love left Jesus. put a one in the chat if you would say, "Hey man, I this I love this Jesus." And and so you would think, well, who would have a problem with left Jesus?

Left Jesus is good Jesus. But hold on, there are others in the church who have right Jesus. You take your half of Jesus and I'm going to take my half of Jesus. there. There's some reason that they don't like Right Jesus doesn't like left Jesus and left Jesus doesn't like right Jesus. Are y'all following me? Please y'all please just just Okay. So, please follow along and please let's not let's not put anyway guys please be respectful in the chat. I'm asking you I'm asking you please be respectful in the chat.

No, right Jesus. There are good attributes about right J. Let's talk about right Jesus. Right Jesus says stuff like this. Matthew 7:21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven. Right Jesus is all about doing the right thing and doing what the word says. Right Jesus, but as 1 Peter 1:15, but as he which has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation because it is written, "Be ye holy, for I am holy."

Right? Jesus is about living right. Holiness, right? Jesus loves verses like these. Hebrews 12:14, "Follow peace with all men and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord." Right? Jesus sounds pretty good to me, guys. Write Jesus. Here is the patience of the saints. here they keep the commandments of God and have the faith of Jesus. It's about doing right with right Jesus. Ecclesiastes 12:13, let us hear the conclusion of the whole. Yes, that's right. Thank you, Paul. Let's not put names out there, please.

Right. Jesus says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. That's right, Jesus. Right. Jesus says, the statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous alltogether. This is right Jesus. Right Jesus. Right Hold on. Pause for a second. How many of you think right Jesus sounds pretty good?

Put a one in the chat if you're like, man, this right Jesus, he's all about business. He sounds good. That right Jesus sounds good. Left Jesus sounds good. But you see beloved, there is a problem with left Jesus. There is a deep down dark problem with left Jesus. Let's talk about left Jesus's problems first. You see, left Jesus isn't too concerned about obedience. Left Jesus loves the sinner but is unconcerned about the sin. Y'all put a five in the chat if you you lock in on what I just said. left Jesus loves the sinner but is not at all concerned about the sin left Jesus says ah it's it's not really a sin is it Jesus said unto her, "Neither do I condemn thee.

Go and sin no more." Left Jesus has radical inclusivity without requiring repentance. Left Jesus ignores verses like these. Fear God and keep his commandments for this is the whole duty of man. Left Jesus cares about justice for the oppressed without accountability for sin. left. Jesus is is about mercy but is not about judgment because he has appointed a day in which he will judge the whole world in righteousness by that man whom he has ordained whereof he giveth assurance unto all men in that he raised him up from the dead.

Left Jesus says hey mercy is good but left Jesus isn't too concerned about judgment. Left Jesus ignores the fact that you must be born again. In John 3:es 3-5, the Bible says, "Jesus answered and said unto him, verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot enter the kingdom of God." Nicodemus saith unto him, "How can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born?" Jesus said, "Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God."

Left Jesus says, "Hey, you can be forgiven, but you don't need to be transformed." left. Jesus is concerned about feeding the hungry but ignores the bread of life. The Bible says in 2 Timothy chapter 2:15, "Study to show thyself approved, a workman that needeth not be ashamed of the word of God." Study to show thyself approved, a workman that needeth not be ashamed of the word of God. the the the left Jesus is more concerned with feeding the hungry with bread than feeding the hungry with the word.

John chapter 6:35 Jesus said, "I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger. He that believeth on me shall never thirst." Left Jesus celebrates diversity without discernment. Romans 1:25-28, who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshiped and served the creature more than the creator, who is blessed forever, forever. Amen. For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections, for even their women did change the natural use unto that which is against nature. And likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another, men with men working that which is unseemly.

Left Jesus says, "Hey, this verse doesn't really matter. Left Jesus is nonjud non-judgmental to the point of silence. Left Jesus ignores this verse. Judge not according to the appearance but judge righteous judgment. Are you with me? Are you following? Are you understand? Left Jesus has a tolerance for sin that is disguised as love. left. Jesus says um left Jesus ignores Ezekiel 3:18. When I say unto the wicked, thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning, nor nor speaketh to warn the wicked from his wicked way to save his life, the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at your hand.

left Jesus embraces a social aspect of the gospel without connecting that social aspect with the eternal gospel which says in Revelation 14 6 and 7 I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth to every nation kindred tongue and people saying with a loud voice fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgment is coming and worship him that made heaven and earth the sea and the fountains of water left. Jesus wants peace without the sword.

When Jesus said, "Think not that I'm come to send peace on the earth. I came not to send peace but a sword." You see, beloved, the problem with left Jesus is that while left Jesus looks good, he is not balanced. Left Jesus is not really Jesus. It just looks like Jesus. left Jesus. Left. Okay, let me say it this way. Right now, you can tell if you have accepted left Jesus if in your heart you're kind of struggling right now with what is being said about left Jesus. If you're trying to protect left Jesus, >> then that might be Jesus actually speaking to you because beloved left Jesus is not Jesus.

He may look like Jesus just like the two women in the story. Hey, he's mine. He's mine. But one woman was content with half of Jesus. The other woman was like, "No, no, no, no, no. I need all of And so the question now for us is, hey, do I really have all of Jesus or do I just have left Jesus? Do I just have right Jesus? Because just as there is a dark side to left Jesus, there is a dark side to right Jesus. right Jesus is a Republican. Everybody knows that. Right Jesus is Republican. Who doesn't know that?

Right. Jesus uh uh isn't too fond of the immigrants. Right. Jesus doesn't believe racism exists. Right. Jesus thinks that black people are in high positions uh that aren't qualified to be there. Black Jesus, I'm sorry, right Jesus is a communist hunter. Right Jesus is a Marxist hater. Right Jesus is anti-woke, meaning anything that is against right Jesus. That's what anti-woke is. Right Jesus is anti-dei because right Jesus isn't about diversity or inclusion or right Jesus hates critical race theory because white Jesus a right Jesus I'm sorry right erroneously thinks that critical race theory teaches that all white people are just racist right Jesus is antivaccine and now right Jesus right Jesus is now anti- Tylenol You know that, right?

Do y'all catch what I'm saying? Come on, put a one in the chat if you're like, "Oh, hey, I know right Jesus and I know left Jesus. I've seen them both." See? See? Let's go. Let's go to the screen, y'all. Right? Jesus ignores Right. Jesus ignores this this very important thing. 1 Corinthians 13:2, "And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith so that I can remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing." Right? Jesus doesn't worry about love.

Right? Jesus only thinks about what he calls tough love. Right? Jesus is concerned with holiness without mercy. Let's go back to the screen where Jesus the real Jesus said, "Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay tithe of mint and annis and cumin and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. These you ought to have done, and not to have left the other undone." Right? Jesus is concerned about obedience, but doesn't care about compassion. Matthew 9:13.

But go ye and learn what what this meanth. I will have mercy and not sacrifice. For I'm not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Right Jesus is all about the law, but doesn't think too much about grace, for the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. Right Jesus is concerned about judgment and doesn't care too much about forgiveness. So, right Jesus would have stoned the woman caught in adultery. Y'all get what I'm saying? Right Jesus would have stoned the woman caught in adultery and then rejoiced about the stoning, rejoiced about the exposing.

Right? Jesus is more concerned with religion than he is with relationship. And so Jesus says, "The real Jesus says, "This people draweth nigh to me with their mouth and honorth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men." Right? Jesus is all about zeal without knowledge. For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have submitted themselves, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God.

Right? Jesus defends cruelty in the name of Jesus. They shall put you out of the synagogues. Yay, the time cometh that whosoever kill you will think he's doing God's service. And these things they will do unto you because they have not known the Father nor known me. Right? Jesus doesn't care about righteousness, the righteousness of Christ. They ignore these verses. being found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith.

What I'm trying to tell you, beloved, is that in a certain sense, we have created God in our own image. We have taken Jesus and said, "I am content with left Jesus or I am content with right Jesus." And now we literally go through life thinking that Jesus is actually in heaven a Republican, in heaven a Democrat, in heaven a leftist, in heaven a rightist. We are, we literally believe with all our How can you not see that Jesus is a Republican? I I don't understand. What are you, what are you talking?

Oh, are you not a Christian? You must not be a Christian cuz you don't know that Jesus is MAGA. Don't you get that? We have created Jesus in our own image. So, so what's happening is that people are walking around with half And if you have half of Jesus, you really have none of Jesus. Remember how the the the the text said in Solomon how how he was before the ark of the covenant? That's significant, you guys, because I want you to notice something about the ark of the covenant. In Exodus 25:10-11, listen to this.

Exodus 25:10-11 the Bible says, "And they shall make an ark of and wood. Two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold within and without shalt thou overlay it, and make it a crown of gold round. And thou shalt put into the ark of the testimony which I shall give thee. Thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee. and thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold.

Let's stop right there. Do you know that the ark of the covenant, that part of the ark of the covenant is the mercy seat? Here's what happens, beloved. Left Jesus says, "Give me the mercy seat." Right? Jesus says, "Give me the ark." You cannot separate that article of furniture. You can't do that. To do that is to be content with half the child. God demands justice and he also demands mercy. God demands left and right of Our appeal should not be give me half of Jesus. It should be give me Jesus.

All of Jesus. All of Jesus. Many of us are content with half of Jesus. Many of us in the church are guilty of worshiping right Jesus or left Jesus. Not understanding that when you take the good attributes of right Jesus and the good attributes of left Jesus and bring them together that is when you actually have Jesus. So to have Jesus is a denial of the right Jesus who says yes justice and this is wrong and this is right without caring about the oppressed. That is not the the Jesus you have that doesn't care about the immigrant, about the oppressed, about the needy, that is not Jesus.

And the Jesus you have who who cares about the oppressed and the immigrant and all those things, but hates righteousness, doesn't doesn't expose sin, that is not Jesus. And if you are content with half of Jesus, you do not have Jesus at all. And so, and so the king says in his wisdom, what? Come on, y'all. Come on. Listen to this. The king says in his wisdom, "Bring me a sword." Just let me clap over here by myself for a moment, y'all. Bring me a sword. Now, listen y'all. Solomon is not about to kill the child.

That's not who he is. The reason he says, "Bring me a sword," is because the sword he knows is going to reveal who is the true mother and who isn't. Come on, y'all. Come on. Come on. Come on. Bring me a sword. Hebrews 4:12, for the word of God, for the word of God. For the word of God, for the word of God, for the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing aunderder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.

Solomon knows I got to get I got to get I got to get to the to the thoughts and the intents of these two women. So bring me a sword because the word of God when fully accepted reveals who is the true and who is the false. Who really has a relationship with Jesus and who doesn't? And listen Jesus is not condemning us here. He's not saying ah you only have half half Jesus you're lost. What he's trying to show us is listen, you are walking around with half Jesus thinking you're converted and you're not.

And I'm revealing it to you so that you can get all of Jesus. This is exactly what's happening in the Christian world today, beloved. So, watch this. The sword is the word of God. The sword reveals what's really in our hearts. The sword is the whole word of God. Acts 20 27. Acts 20 27. Note what the text says. For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. All the counsel of God. You see, beloved, the real Jesus de the real Jesus is about all the counsel of God. Left Jesus only likes the verses about oppression and being kind and being sweet.

Right Jesus only likes the verses about judgment and yes, abortion is wrong and all these things. Left Jesus wants to point out everything that is wrong. Right Jesus wants to point out all the all the things that should be good. But beloved, if we're not listen, left Jesus claims to be woke. [Music] left. Jesus, claims to be woke but is asleep to the word of God. Right Jesus is anti-woke. Meaning right Jesus is also asleep. Because I need you to understand to be anti-woke, to be anti-awwake is to be asleep.

Right? Jesus is sleeping and left Jesus is sleeping. And what the church needs now more than ever is to present to the world a picture of a Jesus who is not left Jesus and is not right And I used to think that of all people, our church would be the church that could say, "Hey guys, listen. This is what's good about left Jesus. This is what's good about right Jesus." And in actuality, the real Jesus is a combination of these things. But no, in the church too, we have said, "Hey, divide the child.

Give me left Jesus and I'm I'll be on my way. Give me right Jesus and I'll be on my way. There's another title to this message which I cannot say yet, but I will say as we get to that part. We're getting there and I hope y'all are sitting down. Come on. First Kings chapter 3 26 and 27. Watch what happens. Then spake the woman whose the living child was unto the king, for her bowels yearned upon her son. And she said, "Oh my lord, give her the living child and in no wise slay it." Then said the king and answered, or then answered the king, and said, "Give it.

She is the mother thereof." Listen, the true mother would rather sacrifice herself than see the body the body the body divided. The true mother was willing to sacrifice herself then she would rather sacrifice herself than see the body of the child. the body divided. Solomon's call for the sword was not to to kill the child, to divide the body. It was to reveal who truly cares about the son. And you know what's amazing? When the true mother said, "No, don't harm the child. Give her the child." Oh man, that it is her child and the woman is willing to lose her child that the child may live.

In this very thing, listen to me. In this very thing, the woman actually reveals justice in her cry. Justice means giving each their due. So the woman, the true mother acknowledges, if the child must live, if the child must live, even if it costs me my rights, let justice be done for the child. The the true mother even in that cry was revealing mercy because she could have said, "Hey, divide the child and at least give me half." But in her mind, no mer this child needs mercy right now. His life is on the line.

And if it requires me losing what rightfully belongs to me, I would rather mercy than have the child die. You guys understand this. This woman is reflecting the whole Jesus. She's reflecting the Jesus of justice, the Jesus of mercy. She's reflecting in her action exactly what Jesus is, who is justice and mercy met in one. You do understand beloved that the wages of sin is death. You understand that according to Romans chapter 6 verse 23. See it on the screen. The wages of sin is death. And you do understand that a sword was headed to us.

But Jesus said no no no. Let me take the sword. Zechariah 13:7. Awake oh sword against my shepherd and against the man that is my fellow. Sayith the Lord of hosts, "Smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered, and I will turn my hand upon the little ones." Jesus took the sword on our behalf. Come on, y'all. Jesus took the sword on our behalf so that we would not die, so that we would not be divided. And if he was willing to die on our behalf, that that the body not be divided. How dare we?

How dare we? How dare we MAGA Adventists? How dare we leftist Adventist? How dare we divide the body that Christ died for to bring together? How dare we? The Bible says in Isaiah 53:5 and 6, "But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray and have turned everyone his own way. And the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all." This is why, beloved, we're told in 1 John 4:19, "We love him because what?

He first loved us, with half Jesus, God is trying to speak. God's trying to speak. He's trying to show us what is in our hearts that we do not even know or understand is there because the heart is deceitfully wicked. who can know it. He's trying to appeal to us. There are so many of us that that are in this world where evil is growing by the day. We are we are becoming engrossed and and taking our eyes off of Jesus. You guys listen to me. The body should not be divided over vaccines or over race.

There is nothing that should divide the body of Christ. And you can almost see the hypocrisy when a when a call was made last year to divide the body because of religious liberty and vaccines and blah blah blah. There were people who were because the church is an apostasy anyway. The church is not the church is the church is is it's no longer the voice of of God on earth. And and and there's corruption and and and and there were these ju just hey it what's the big deal? Whole conferences are going to fall.

And last year when I said, "Hey, no, no, no, no, no, no. Wrong move, you don't know what you're talking about." And now now in in in light of certain events that have taken place over the last several weeks where you now have this issue of race being brought up in the church and questions and talk of, you know, should we divide? Should we have, you know, a black conference or a white conference? I say, no, that's still not the answer. I mean, wow, what a what a slip up. Black conferences and white conferences.

I'll get to that in a moment. Should we separate based on on this? And I'm saying no. The same people who were cheering back then and saying, "Oh, this is boldness. This is courage. We need to stand." are saying, "Well, how can you? This is this is divisive and this is a" And you know what? Trust me. Trust me. Guess what's going to happen? Those who follow right Jesus are going to be like, "Well, you see the difference between that and this is." And those who follow left Jesus who are cheering this on will say, "Well, the difference between this and that was," and I'm telling you, I'm telling you, you guys, dividing the body is never the answer.

That's what Satan wants to do. Last year when people were talking about we need to boycott the GC and and we're going to take our tithe and divert it and people were cheering it and I said no that's wrong. We we no we and how dare you. How dare you? And when I say the same thing now, regardless of what I believe is an actual issue that needs to be addressed in our church, I'm saying still the issue needs to be addressed. Let's come together and address the issue. But no, division is not the answer.

And when I see that that people are willing to divide and you got to understand beloved, we might be we we are still a church but the the division is happening on a micro level because people are splitting friendships. You know how many you know how many friends I've lost that I don't even know I've lost yet? friends who have lost because because they thought I was worshiping left Anytime I spoke about, you know, we got to stand for justice. Oh, you're left Jesus. You don't believe that that you know that that this is wrong or this is wrong.

And I'm like, when did I ever say that? I don't believe this is wrong. This is wrong. No, I it was just you're left Jesus. You're right, Jesus. And and so this division happening on this micro level is people cutting people off. I don't talk with them no more. Why? cuz she's left Jesus. He's left Jesus. He's right Jesus. She's right Jesus. And people just stop talking. Sometimes you don't even know that you've been unfriended till you're running through your Facebook one day and you're like, "Wait a minute.

We were Oh, we're not friends. Wow, man. The division is happening on a micro level, revealing that we are just like the woman in this story. Martin Luther King said this. He said, "It is appalling that the most segregated hour of Christian America is 11:00 on Sunday morning. You see, beloved, we don't just have left Jesus and right Jesus. There is also black Jesus and white Jesus. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The full title of this message is actually left Jesus, right? Jesus, black Jesus, white Jesus.

What Martin Luther King said way back then is still true today. We still have black Jesus and white Ellen White said something that that's really quite concerning. Let me read to you what she said. I'm just going to put them up on the screen. Three or four quotes. In 1895, she said, "Slavery will be revived again will be revived in the southern states, for the spirit of slavery still lives." She also said, "The same spirit that held the colored people in slavery is not dead, but alive today and ready to spring into action."

Once again, she said, "In the South, the spirit of slavery is not eradicated. It has only been smothered for a short time." This is 1899. She also said in an interview, this interview was recorded 1907. She said, "Slavery, there will be slavery just as verily 1907, you guys. There will be slavery just as verily as it has been only upon a basis that is more favorable and secure to white people. PT man who she was speaking to responded by saying more secure because they do not feed they do not have to feed the negroes or care for them.

Then if the negro has got outside that district or if he is loafing and not working, they can put him in the chain gang for a year. You understand what Ellen White was saying here? Ellen White was prophesying where slavery would just change its face and would be more favorable, she says, to the white people. This is Ellen White speaking, y'all. Not me. Not me. Not all white people, she said. It's not what she's talking about, but those whom racism dwells in their hearts. And the reason I bring this up, beloved, is because because I praise God that the Adventist Church is one of the most diverse churches in the world.

How many of you want to put a seven in the chat for that? put a seven in the chat that you say we praise God that the Adventist church is one of the most diverse churches in the world, racially diverse. I praise God for that. But I also need to talk about Lucy Bayard, who in 1943 became seriously ill and was taken to a hospital, Washington Sanitarium, um, in Tacoma Park. And because she was light-skinned, they thought she was white. And then when they found out she was black, they told her that they could not serve her.

systemic racism in the Adventist church in 1943. And what happened is that they she had to go to another hospital and then she actually died sometime later, short time later. and her death was blamed on this racism. And as a result of this, the body was split. We had the introduction of regional conferences because of systemic racism within the Adventist church. The body of Christ must come together. What that looks like, I don't know. I don't have the answers. But here's what I do know. We cannot testify of the love of Jesus.

You understand? You see what's happened in the last couple of weeks. You see how race tensions are are are right they're right there under the carpet. And if we are not willing to deal with the division, the body will remain divided between left Jesus, right Jesus, black Jesus, white Jesus. And then Ellen White has a statement here that is a rebuke to us all. Here's what she says. In fact, let me read Genesis 1:26 verse and then I'm going to read what she says. In Genesis 1:26, the Bible says, "And God said, ' Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and the fowl of the air."

Do you understand, beloved, that what we have done, what many of us have done is we have said, "Let us make God in our image and after our likeness." Absolutely. Fathom. Absolutely. Please understand, please understand that the the start of regional conferences was not black people just saying we're going to go start our own thing. We were black people were begging for integration and this is the legacy that we that we carry right now. It's a shameful legacy. It's a shameful legacy. Here's what Ellen White said, and this is good news and bad news.

And I'm going to close this up, you guys. She said, "It will be impossible to adjust all matters regarding the color question in accordance with the Lord's order until," Let me stop right there. You guys, did you hear that just now? Did you hear that just now? She said it will be impossible to adjust all matters regarding the color question in accordance with the Lord's order until beloved that is good news. Did you hear? Put in one in the chat if you understand how good how good of the news that is.

It will be impossible to adjust all matters regarding the color question in accordance with the Lord's order until meaning that she saw it happening. She said something is going to happen that then it will happen. The question is oh by the way yes right Jesus hates the UN too. I forgot about that. Right Jesus hates the UN. You you guys the caricature of left Jesus and right Jesus it just becomes unfortunately so laughable if it wasn't so sad the social gospel. What is that? Did not Jesus say take care of your neighbors, love others?

How can right Jesus degrade that as oh it's a social gospel? Are we not supposed to demonstrate the beauty of the harmony of working for our neighbors while also preaching the three angels messages? Have we not been called to be to call sin out as it is and yet still be merciful and gracious and kind and loving and empathetic. Let's go back to the statement. those who believe the truth are so closely united with Christ that they are one with him. Both the white and the colored members of our churches need to be converted.

There are some of both classes who are unreasonable and when the color question is agitated they manifest unsanctified unconverted traits of character. Quarrelome elements are easily aroused in those who because they have never learned to wear the yoke of Christ are opinionated and obstinate. In such self clamors with an unsanctified determination for the supremacy. The reason the color question still exists in our church is because whenever it's brought up, there are many who want to deny it that it even exists.

And there are others who through anger don't even want to talk about it. It just is what it is. There's resentment. Ellen White says that we need to be converted because when we are converted, we can actually then deal with the question and left Jesus will disappear from the church and right Jesus will disappear from the church and black Jesus will disappear from the church and white Jesus will disappear from the church and we will we will be left with just Jesus. All I want is Jesus. Not left Jesus.

Not right Jesus. Not black Jesus. Not white Jesus. Jesus. Jesus who loves everybody. Jesus who loves the left, who loves the right, who loves the black, who loves the white. Jesus, the actual Jesus. God is going to keep bringing us around to this until we get it right. Why? Because because our closing statement, Christ is waiting with longing desire for the manifest manifestation of himself in his church. Do y'all see it on the screen? Let me read it again. Christ is waiting with longing desire for the manifestation of himself in his church.

It's not up on the screen. I need y'all to see this when with your own eyes. All right. Maybe my slide is messed up. Slide team. All right. I'll just read it in your hearing. for the manifestation of himself in his church. When the character of Christ shall be perfectly reproduced in his people, then he will come to claim them as his own. And here's what I want y'all to understand. Right now, we're told that when the character of Christ I I'm hoping they can get it up on the screen. I'm not sure what's going on, but we're told that Christ is waiting for us to reflect his character.

But here's what's happening. We all have different views of the character of Christ. So people are are are are reflecting right Jesus and other people are reflecting left Jesus and other people are reflecting black Jesus and other people are refle reflecting white Jesus. And so what happens is that the picture that is forming of Jesus right now is is a confusing picture. Before we can get the the character of Christ reproduced so that when he looks in the mirror, he sees himself, we all have to know what Jesus we're worshiping.

My appeal to you Christians of the world, Christians out there in the other denominations, Christians in our church, stop reflecting the Jesus you have created in your own image. There is not a right Jesus and there is not a left Jesus. There is Jesus. There is Jesus. There is not a black Jesus. There is not a white Jesus. There is Jesus. Give me Jesus. And so right now, I'm going to make a special appeal. Right now, I'm going to ask you to get rid of left Jesus. And I'm going to ask you who have right Jesus to make a commitment to get rid of right Jesus.

And what I'm going to do right now is I'm going to ask you to respond by putting in the chat L for today I give up left Jesus and R for today I give up right Jesus. Please let's put that in the chat. That's my appeal. You may not want to out yourself as who you really believed in left Jesus or you really believed in right Jesus. But it's okay. It's okay. Be like the woman who really had the son. She was unwilling to let the body be divided. She was willing to be seen as wrong that the child might live.

I want you to put that L in the chat for saying, "Listen, no more left Jesus for me." R in the chat for saying, "No more right Jesus for me. I want all of Jesus." Lord, reintroduce me to who you are. Help me not to go along with the painted picture of a right Jesus or the painted picture of a left Jesus. Help me to know that I can acknowledge that racism is a very real thing in the world today. And also at the same time say, "Hey, the answer to this is not in do this to the government and do that."

But in the gospel, help me to know that I can do those two things. Help me to know that I can acknowledge that I can acknowledge that I can acknowledge these things that are wrong over here, but also these things that are right over here. Help me to know that I can be merciful and loving to the stranger and also stand up for for what I believe is right here or there. That two things can be true at one time. Help me to stop demonizing Right Jesus demonizes and left Jesus demonizes. Help me to understand.

Right. Jesus hates his enemies. Get them. The wicked Democrats. I've seen I've seen the statements. How do you call a whole group of people wicked? How do you do that and be a Christian? I believe I believe that that there there there are church bodies that are full of error and you will never hear me say the wicked Catholics or the wicked Protestants. You'll never hear that come out my mouth. But we're comfortable with saying the wicked Republicans or the wicked Democrats as a Christian. You see, right Jesus and left Jesus are really selffocused.

The actual Jesus loves people so much that he's willing to die even for his enemies. This woman when she said to the king, "Give her the child." She could have been killed because what she was saying to the king was, "All right, all right. I'm the guilty one. I'm the guilty one. Yeah. Yeah. I I stole the child." And she could have been killed. She was willing to look like a criminal, like a liar, like a thief, like a kidnapper. Listen y'all, I'm I'm closing. I'm closing. I promise you what motivated this woman is that the child had been formed within her.

If it's not your child, you don't care. If it's not your child, you can be callous. If it's not your child, you don't have the same kind of love for it. This woman was was connected to the child because it had been formed within her. Beloved, if Christ is not in you, you will be content with a divided body. You will push for a divided body. You will glorify a divided body. you will amplify and talk and and bring up all the things that that show and that get people on one side of that divided body.

Come on. We got to we got to be against the other side. There's going to be a shaking and all that all those people are going to be shaken out. Us against them. Us against them. Us against them. When we have this us against them mentality, beloved, we are missing the point. It is not us against them, beloved. It is us against spiritual wickedness in high places. And our role is to tell the atheists and to tell the agnostics and to tell the Protestants and to tell the Catholics and to tell the people at the UN and to tell the people in the government, guess what?

The devil is trying to deceive us all by telling us it's us versus you, us versus them. Here is the devil's real plot. But now we're just getting caught up in left Jesus, right Jesus, left Jesus, right Jesus, left Jesus, right Jesus. And we're proud. And we get in our corners with our right Jesus friends or our left Jesus friends. We're like, see those left Jesusers, those right Jesusers. Beloved, listen. Jesus is waiting with longing desire for the manifestation of himself. Not left Jesus. Himself, not right Jesus.

himself, not black Jesus, himself, not white Jesus. And then when that happens, he will come to claim his own. Heavenly I am praying again that our church will revisit the past, will write the wrongs. Lord, if we have to call a 10-day meeting, like I said two weeks ago, if we have to call a 10-day meeting where our church comes together and we address the issues that we have been sweeping under the rug for the purpose of uniting the body, truly uniting the body. Lord, let it be. We need a unified front and we are too busy using the sword to cut one another in half.

Forgive us Lord for manifesting the spirit of the woman who said divide it. Let it neither be mine nor thine but divide it. Forgive us for worshiping left Jesus, right Jesus, black Jesus, white Jesus. Lord give us Jesus and in his name we pray. Amen. And amen. May God bless you. May God take this message and search our hearts. and may we bring the body together the way that the Lord would have us to do. God bless you. We're going to put the chat the the uh the link for the afterglow discussion. We will be on mighty networks.

Uh you are all free to join us. um we we fellowship, we talk about the Sabbath school, we talk about the sermon, and so it's a chance that everyone gets to um to uh uh fellowship together. And I'm going to ask one more thing. If there's any of you who do not know Jesus and you want to get to know him better, you want to get to understand his word, you want to get to know Jesus, I'm going to ask you, we're going to put this up on the screen if we can. Want you to connect with our Bible worker. Um, let's see if we can get that up in the screen or get it in the link.

If there's anyone that wants to be baptized because you feel the Lord calling you to give your life fully to Christ, I'm going to invite you to reach out to that same address once we get it up on the screen. And um and if you just want to study again to get to know the word of God better or to give your life to Christ, reach out >> Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service.

We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Thank you.