All right. Hello everyone. Uh this is Pastor Meyers coming to you live from Atlanta. Yes, it is uh night time. We're actually heading back to Huntsville right now and I just wanted to jump I'm not driving by the way. So, just just in case anybody asks, the car is not moving, but I do want to jump on and just make a couple of quick uh announcements. This video will only be up for a little while, then it's going to come down. Okay. Um, so I got two announcements I want to I want to share with you guys.

First of all, announcement number one is my Revelation in 7 days class. My Revelation in 7 days class. Um, that class which was supposed to start today is not starting today because I am not in Huntsville right now. So, the class will start tomorrow. For those of you that signed up for the for that course, that 7-day course, it will start tomorrow. But for those of you that wanted to sign up for it, there is still time to sign up for it. And I'm going to put this uh put the website in the chat for you.

Uh so it is my photo theology.com and that's where you can go um to register for the Revelation in 7 days course. in that we just finished the Daniel in seven days course as well as a photo theology in seven days course. Now we're doing the revelation course. We're going to be going through the seven seals, the seven trumpets, the seven plagues, and we're not going to be looking at this from the typical um uh you know typical perspective. We'll be looking at this through the lens of photo theology.

So this class is for those who really want to uh in a closed environment get deep into the book of revelation and really understand the principles, the storyline, um the patterns, um the parallels. Uh it's just going to be a a totally unique study. For those of you uh that were in my Daniel in 7 days class or my photo theology in 7 days class, you will know that um these classes were not your typical, you know, Daniel 2, Daniel 7, Babylon, Meip, Pers, Greece, Rome wasn't that typical type of study.

Um it was definitely um uh on a way deeper level. So, I see you Jay. What's up, Clint? Um, and I know there are others on here watching. But anyway, so that's the first announcement I wanted to make. And the second announcement that I that I am preparing to make you guys um so I have been working on a photo theology GPT and uh I am going to be on in the next probably as early as next week maybe even earlier to do a demonstration of this photo theology GPT. And I'm super excited about this GPT because this GPT is based strictly on the photo theology principles of Bible study.

And um the other thing about this GPT is that it is not designed to study for you. It is designed to teach you how to study and think deeper in the scriptures. So I'm super excited about this. I've kind of let this out in a small um you know kind of a little bit by little bit. I've um given it to to some of the individuals in either my photo theology class or even the Daniel in 7 days class um and different individuals have been trying it uh and it continues to be refined but this GPT uh is basically taking all the principles of photoology and showing how you can apply these 36 different principles 36 different rooms um to any verse in the church.

It's going to help you to take five verses in the Bible that may look like they have nothing to do with each other and find the connecting theme between all five verses or all 10 verses or two verses or whatever it is. It's a very powerful powerful and unique. There is no other GPT or app out there like this. Um, this is not a app that is this is not a GPT that's going to think for you. It's a GPT that's going to lead you through the principles of photo theology. It's going to build with you instead of thinking for you.

It's designed to lead you to think more deeply about the Bible, about the scriptures, um, and putting thoughts together that you are putting Yeah. putting thoughts together that you may have never building a photo. And this is um within the photo. Uh this Daniel The third GP is the SDA apologetics GPT. the SDA Apologetics GPT. All three of these GPT, the Photo Theology GPT, the Daniel and Revelation GPT, and the SDA Apologetics GPT are all designed um to take you into a much deeper understanding of prophecy, of apologetics, and of the scriptures all together.

So, Jacqueline, um, email me. Email me, uh, if you can, or I don't know if you want to message me. Go on Facebook and message me and I'll get you Again, for those of you that are in the Daniel course, which begins tomorrow, it was supposed to start today, but it will officially begin tomorrow. Moto theology.com. I put the I put the link in the chat already. Do it again. Myal the com. This is where you can sign up for the revelation course and we'll begin sign up photo theology. I'm going a live demonstration on this on my YouTube channel, Power of the Lamb YouTube.

Um, so look out for it. Y'all are going to be going away. I think y'all are going away. If you got the the car deck and you didn't weren't weren't sure how to use it, um this GPT is going to is going to assist you and uh you're going to be blown away days course, the Daniel and 7 days course, the photo theology in 7 days course. Um let me just speak to the Revelation 7 days course. If you're trying to join and you think you may not be able to be present all seven days, the class is being recorded.

So if you sign up for the course, you will have access to the classes. It'll be through website called Mighty Network, power of the land, Mighty Networks. So you will join that that uh platform and uh all the videos, all the like I this is not your typical revelation class, okay? You're going to get a bunch of PDFs. You're going to get a bunch of different um lessons from unique angles on the book of Revelation. And uh you you will not regret I'll see you all again soon by God's grace. All right.

Peace. Peace. Peace.