Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. Welcome living Mana Church family, we are so happy that you are here with us this morning or afternoon or evening or whatever time it is in the part of the world you are in. But we are so thankful that you are here and that we are here and able to worship God with you on this Sabbath day. So, it's good to see all of you here. Um, want to thank everyone for all the birthday greetings uh that uh were sent my way from from last week. Uh, we definitely missed being here with you guys live, but we are back now and we are just happy to be here with you and just ready to jump into the word of God with you and just fellowship and have a great time on this Sabbath.

Yep. Uh, and on this Sabbath, we're going to be talking about the sermon that I preached two weeks ago. That's right. uh we're going to be yeah reviewing the subject of faith. So definitely uh invite your your participation. We're going to have a good uh recap of that message. So yes, we are excited. Please put please put in the chat where you're viewing from. We want to say a special welcome to you. And if this is your very first time worshiping with Living Man Church, please put a one in the chat.

Um, but we are just excited uh to be here with you guys again. And what it's so exciting because it is the month of April. It's the month of April. That's right. And what is special to Living Mana Church in the month of April? It is our anniversary month, April 9th specifically. That's when we did our first Sabbath live. Um, and so we are excited to be celebrating all month um, our anniversary of Living Man of Church. We have been here for 3 years. Yeah, that's really uh quite amazing. And we just Yeah, we want to thank all of you for uh coming along on this journey.

You know, we know that some of you some of you are members, some of you are not members, but you've been watching. You've been with us from the very beginning. From the very beginning. Um, so means a lot to us that uh you guys have um uh supported this ministry, supported the church uh with your prayers, with your presence, and um we're just thankful that we're up on three years and we're going strong. The Lord is blessing. Yes. And uh and the church is growing. The church is growing. And you have been there with us through the highs and the lows.

You know, we have I mean, this is really church. This is real life. We're real people, right? So, we go through things as we, you know, have been going through this journey from the very beginning of this year, really last year, uh, with, um, with Sean getting sick and then losing him. You guys were there and holding because there we took some time away and had to step away and you guys held and kept the church together. So, we just want to say thank you uh, for that. And um also um just to those who volunteer, the different teams and areas at um that all that they do here for Living Mana Church.

Um you hear about the prayer team, you even hear about the tech team. Usually hear about them when something goes wrong and we're thanking them. You hear about them, but you know, we have our slide team, our graphics team. Um just our our small group leaders. I don't want to miss leave anything out anyone out. I mean there's but you know who you are and what you do for living mana church and uh we wouldn't be celebrating three years if it wasn't for all of you. Everybody working together is what makes this church work.

Yeah. So we are thankful. We are really thankful. Yeah. We definitely could not do it alone. Could not do its Oh, we know. Um I No, we sure couldn't. We sure couldn't. I'm missing some. I want to I want to talk about the great experience we had last night, but want to just say welcome to Vivian um from Philly. Looks like she's looking um she is coming to us from from Philly, Philadelphia. So, welcome. And I don't know if I'm Well, let's see if I go up high enough. South Carolina. Got Christy from South Carolina.

Welcome here to Living Mana Church from um Barbara from Anguila. Marvin from um let's see from Texas. Good to see you. Welcome. Happy Sabbath to you. Got Dylan, South Carolina Word Ministry. Welcome to Living Man Church. MNA from Tacoma, Washington. Welcome. Good to see you. Annette from Kansas. Sister Annette, good to always see you here. Um, all right. Um, oh, Batswana. Moses from Batswana. I want to say that's the first time I've seen Batswana. I don't know. Moses, is this your first time? Maybe not.

Maybe it's your first time putting it in the chat. I don't know. But welcome. We are happy to have you to have you here. Uh, got Leela uh from North Carolina. So yes, welcome to everyone. Just didn't want to miss those. Didn't want to miss a one, but I don't see a one, so I guess it's not Moses's first time. So, but welcome. Good to see everyone. Yeah. So, yes, last night uh we were uh you, not we, you were speaking uh for students at um Oakwood University for their for their AY service. And it was really a blessing.

It really it was a blessing before you got up to speak. That's really what I wanted to talk about too. like the students and you know for most of you you know that we both used to work at Oakwood University and um both um um moved on uh I and well for me in November and you earlier last year but um just seeing the students and you know just seeing some of you know the students who I know um and just other students that I don't know I was like oh wow I really miss the students to say that those students the students at Oakwood university make that that place an amazing what it is.

Yeah. Makes it an amazing place. Um and but you know I you know of course I'm expecting you to speak and I watch AY all the time but they opened up uh with just conversation conversation and they were leading it so well and spiritually touched my heart touched your heart like they did such a great job and the people were just insight in the word. were willingly sharing. They were Yeah, it was beautiful from the audience. From the audience. Yeah. So, it was I don't know if it's the first time they've done that.

I've never seen them do that before, but I was like, "This is uh this is nice." It was great. And then I got to speak and that was so they invited me to speak and I um I actually got to share with them the message that I shared uh a few weeks ago here on meekness. Mhm. Um, meekness is weakness. And, uh, it was such a, I actually shared it a lot. I would say it was probably significantly different from this message. Very similar, but I went a kind of went a whole different route and really built on the uh, the Samson element.

Yeah. And I love that. Yeah. I just probably just need to share that because I didn't do that in this message. Well, you'll you have other you'll have another opportunity or do you want to share it right now? Yeah, that's what I'm Okay. Okay. Share it right now. so basically what you what what I shared in that message last night that I didn't share in the message on meekness here was that um Jesus like Samson was the strongest man that ever lived. Truly the strongest man that ever lived. Right? And this is not our Sabbath school.

We will pray before we get into the study. Yeah. But I'm just giving you a uh I can't say a sneak peek uh because I'm not gonna preach this here. And maybe I might. Maybe I might. I'm just talking in my mind. Yes, I think you will. At any rate, I was sharing how God Samson was born to deliver Israel. So he was his birth was prophesied and but no one knew or could have suspected that it would be through his death that he would deliver Israel from the Philistines. Mhm. And and when I said that, the the students were like, "Yeah, that that really started there because what I was sharing was that Jesus voluntarily became weak."

Mhm. In order to um to deliver us, right? And I shared the parable of, you know, when a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace. But when a stronger than he shall come upon him and overpower him, you know, he divides his sp. And we were I was sharing how Satan is the strong man. Mhm. But Jesus is the one that is stronger than him. Mhm. But the way Jesus became strong not became the way Jesus was stronger than Satan was in Jesus becoming weak. Mhm. Which is just kind of like wait what?

But that's how we that's how we defeated Satan by becoming weak on our behalf. Yeah. So basically what I was sharing um Samson God used God used Samson to set up the Philistines. Right? So by the end of Samson's life, he's weak. He's lost his strength. and 3,000 Philistines have come together into one building to see the man who was the strongest man that ever lived who is now weak. What a spectacle. This guy used to be the strongest guy on the planet. But it was all a setup to get them into the same location, right?

And of course that Samson M when I read to the audience how when the text literally says Samson stood between the pillars and they were like uh you could hear you could hear them begin to be like wait and then when I started reading I had to have someone come up and hold the mic for me cuz I had to do it. You didn't have a lapel. Yeah. I didn't have lapels. One of the students came up and I was like, "The Bible says Samson put his right hand on one pillar." Mhm. And his left hand on the other and they just like went wild.

Yeah. They went wild on that one. Yeah. They saw the picture of the cross. Yes. And the point I was making was Jesus when he died on the cross, it was a setup to get the whole world to come and see who is this man who was the strong, who was God? Who is this man who was the most powerful being on the planet who has now become so weak that he's on a cross? Let me go see him. And guess what happens to all those who end up going to the cross to see this spectacle? Just as Samson's death brought about the death of the Philistines, Jesus's death where there's a great earthquake and a great rumbling, when Jesus dies, the Bible says they that were in the grave came up to life.

Mhm. So it was beautiful you guys to it was beautiful to watch this message was yeah the message was beautiful and it was beautiful to see them the Holy Spirit connect it connected with them and they were like we're tracking we catch this and of course you know at first they were like where is he going where is he going what does he mean weakness is weakness but right but as the message went on light bulbs started going off and it was just a beautiful thing they were like come. Well, several students asked for like your notes.

I was like, "Oh, wow. They wanted the notes. They want to go study it more for themselves." So, I thought that was beautiful, too. But I loved it how they be honest, they laid the foundation how they opened up like they ministered to our souls and then the Holy Spirit used to bless them. So, it really was a blessing. It was a blessing. Great way to to start the Sabbath. But I want to do Oh, by the way, go ahead. We didn't get home till like 12:00 last night, which has been a Yeah, we had a Yeah, which is already a tiring week.

Oh, man. We were supposed to start at 8 and I don't think I started speaking probably till like closer to nine. Nine. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. And then then we just were talking to them after so we ended up staying a little bit later. So, yes. But it was a blessing and wanted to do t-shirt message. All right. I will walk by faith even when I cannot see. And the Bible verse 2 Corinthians 5:7. Yeah. So um as I was just you know thinking about I mean obviously I use this one today. I mean I think a lot most of my shirts do talk about faith but we are going to uh be talking about faith today for Sabbath school.

Just you know recapping the sermon from a couple weeks ago and just doing a study on it with you guys. Um, and you know, so that's just to me it's interesting how it says I will have faith when I cannot see. It's like that is what faith is. You know, just we cannot see. We cannot see. This is something that one of the students said last night that's bringing now that clicking with me too right now. Um that uh you don't you can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. So you just keep walking in darkness by faith.

That's what our trials are. That's what our situations that we are going through. Um um but then she was using how the goodness and mercy are behind you. Um she was comparing the uh yeah though I walked through the valley of the shadow of death. Um surely and then she closed with surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. That's the last verse in Psalm 23. Right. So it's behind you. Yeah. So the goodness and mercy is still with you throughout the process. you know, it's like behind you, but it had been with you going through this.

So, when you're having faith, even in the darkness, goodness and mercy are with you throughout this process. And even though you can't see and you don't see the light at the end of the tunnel, you will get there. So, you have to look back to almost give you strength to keep going. It is beautiful. Yeah. Kind of goes with what you're kind of goes what I'm talking about. What I'm going to be talking the students were just bringing the bringing the stuff. So, I didn't think about that until right now to connect this to but but yeah.

So hopefully that's encouraging to you. Like have faith when you even when you cannot see. That's real faith. That's the real real faith. When you can see kind of like, yeah, I think it's going to work out. I can see how this That's not Yeah. That's not real real faith. You can see. Faith is when you can't see. That's what the Bible says. That's right. So, yes, we're going to get into our Bible study, but I do want to let you guys know that today is the last uh message in the in the series nine essentials for the time of trouble series.

So, this is It only took us nine weeks. No, it started in December or November. Yeah. Yeah. Started in December. So, December. Not much interruption. Yeah. Uh we are today's the the the final message and um we're going to you know all these messages are in a playlist on the um on our Living Mana YouTube page. So for those of you who may have missed one or two or several, you can go back and even, you know, I'll let you know we had difficulty with one or two messages where the audio wasn't that great, right?

Um I think one where the audio really but um I think it was the audio was not in sync with the video. So just close your eyes just don't look at the video but listen yeah because the messages were are very powerful. They are and uh I've learned a lot about this about the fruit of the spirit since doing this series. So uh the Lord was showing me stuff as I was putting these messages together and today is no exception. Mhm. So, uh, if you think you know what temperance is, you're going to learn some new stuff today, right?

So, uh, I'm excited. Yeah. All right. Because you haven't shared anything with me yet. So, yeah. So, I'm going to hear it with you. Yeah. Yes. Well, let's pray. Let's pray. Oh, you want to pray? Yes. Sure. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for the Sabbath. Lord, I thank you for this opportunity to to share with so many people from all around the world. Um and we just ask that your holy spirit would be with us at this time as we uh study your word together in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right.

So uh please feel free to interact with us. Let us know um you know we're going to be talking about the sermon on faith. And um if you watch the sermon like go ahead and put in the chat some of the things that really jumped out to you in that sermon if you remember. I hope you remember. Yeah. Hopefully. Um but as we go through this recap uh let's go ahead and you know we'll we'll be asking questions we go through. We'll see what what your responses are. Yeah you're definitely a part of this. This is our Sabbath school time.

So we want you a part of um this discussion. Yeah. So um the entire series has been based upon the the concept that um the sealing that takes place in Revelation chapter 7 um is initiated by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the sealer and as such what he is sealing us with is the fruit of the spirit. Mhm. So, we're being sealed with love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and temperance. And I'm just brainstorming something right now. If you see me, kindness or did I just miss the Did you say kindness?

We started with You started with kindness. Yeah. No, love. So, love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentness, faith, meekness, temperance, and now I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm going to throw something out here because I'm thinking about this. I thought about it like a little bit this morning and then I, you know, got distracted on something else, but the thought just came back to me and it is this. Because some people argue, pastor, the seal of God is what? What's the seal of God? What do they say? What do we say as the Adventist church?

What do we say? The Sabbath. The seal of God is the Sabbath. But this whole series, I've been saying that the Holy Spirit is sealing us with love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. So, what I'm brainstorming right now is could it be that the Sabbath is the sign of all these things? In other words, is is the Sabbath the symbol of love? Is it the sign of love? Because remember part of dealing with man I'm not going into the study right now but remember part of the Sabbath commandment particularly in Isaiah 58 is how we treat other people right?

Yes. and just thinking of what the Sabbath is. Um, meaning like resting from all of those things that we should not be doing. I'm not talking about all the things that we typically look look at, but if you're being loving, then you're not hating, right? if you are um you know showing mercy, you're not you know again not holding something holding something against somebody or whatever like you're just doing all of these positive things and you're not doing those negative things. You're resting from that.

Yeah. Gentleness stop right treating others right the way they should be treated the way they should be should should be treated. goodness. Are all these things um can all these things be demonstrated through a deeper understanding of the Sabbath? They when you put them all together, they make up the true Sabbath rest. And I'll tell you why. I'm going tell you why I'm thinking this, why I thought because as I was putting together my sermon last night, early this morning early this morning Let me We're just going to stop right here.

Okay, we're supposed to be talking about faith cuz I'm just going on. You're going Are you about to go into your sermon already? I'm feel Yeah. So, we're just going to stop. Okay. You have to stay tuned if you want to hear the sermon. Yeah. Can't give it to you earlier. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So, so, but you guys, that's a study that you all should pursue. I'm probably going to do it. I might end up doing that as my sermon next Sabbath for like Mhm. an entire recap of everything. I don't know.

I'm talking out loud. You are. I really am talking out loud today. But we'll see. But if you want if you want to kind of jump ahead on me on that, go right ahead. Go right ahead. Okay. So the whole idea we've been talking about is that the ceiling is the fruit of the spirit locked into our characters um in the time of trouble. And last two weeks ago the focus was on faith. So 1 Peter 1:6 and 7, the Bible says, "Wherein you greatly rejoice through, though now for a season, if need be, you are in heaviness through manifold temptations, that the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though be tried with fire might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ."

So the trial of your faith, this verse helps us to understand that faith is going to be one of those things that are on trial in the time of trouble. So remember when Jesus said uh um when the son of man comes will he find faith on the earth. So that helps us to understand that the devil is going to attack faith at the end of time. Mhm. He attacks He attacks it now, but the attack is going to be amplified in the time of trouble. Yes. Right. So, it's important for us to understand then what faith is and how to exercise it, right?

How to exercise it. Um and so we went into the idea that we went to Hebrewsap 11:6 which says, "But without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him." So this is where the the the the idea of faith really begins to I think crystallize because faith is first understanding that he is and that he is. And when I was reading this text, he is and that he is. He is and that he is sounds so familiar to I am that I am.

And this is kind of what led me into that path of h why is why is faith believing that he is and that he isn't. The text goes on to say a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. But it's almost this play on words where you're believing that you're being asked to believe. Faith is believing that he is he is. Well, what what does it mean he is? And that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. him. So that phrase he is is really a reference to the one who says um or who is described as the alpha and the omega the same yesterday, today and forever the I am that I am.

And this is a reference to the one who exists, the self-existing one. Mhm. Meaning he has always been, he is now, and he will always be. So faith is a recognition of what Revelation 4:6, Revelation 4:8, who Revelation 4:8 describes as the Almighty, which was, that's past tense, and is present, and is to come, future tense. Yeah. Okay. So then faith is believing something about the past, the present and the future. Yeah. Because that's who God is. Faith in God requires faith that is going to go back.

Yeah. Faith that looks forward and faith that is in the present. And so we ended up breaking up faith into three different segments, right? Yes. Well, I just wanted to talk about the past part, but because I love and have experienced that and started a journey probably back in 2017 or 16 maybe, but had a a mentor um a conference president's wife, Janet Page, um who really inspired me to get into um journaling, prayer journaling, and and she led out with, you know, Israel's biggest um problem or issue was they forgot.

So writing, keeping the prayer journal and going back and being able to visit those areas and to see what God had done builds my faith for the present. Yeah. And um that's just been inspiring to me. So I mean it's huge. Yeah. So for me and for the future. Yeah. Mhm. for me. And as I was putting together this message, um, and I went to Hebrews chapter 11 to look at the Hall of Faith. And some of the things that jumped out to me was first of all that faith begins with Abel, right? It didn't begin with Adam and Eve.

So Adam and Eve are not mentioned in the faith chapter, right? It goes straight to Abel. Mhm. And it's as if what the text is saying is look, Adam and Eve had a face tof face encounter with God. Yeah. So they did not require faith, right? They saw God face to face. Right. We have to see God faith to faith. Yes. Right. So faith begins with Abel. And um as as Abel as I'm looking at okay well if if faith is remembering the past and I'm asking myself okay well how did Abel then remember the past and it hit me I was like wait a minute so Abel Abel had to think back when he offered his sacrifice by faith he was thinking back he was remembering back to Genesis chapter 3:15 remembering back to Genesis 3 verse 21 where his parents would have told him what God did in the garden and how he clothed them and how an animal was sacrificed.

And so he's thinking back, yeah, this is this is what God instructed. This is what I'm going to do. So that's the first example of faith. The way you said that, I never really thought about it like that. Like, of course, Adam and Eve didn't have to have faith because they they saw God. And I just think like and they saw God. Yep. It it makes their fall, not because it was the first fall, but because of the conditions like of the situation, they saw God and they still fell. And it's like their fall was harder than our fall.

Does that make sense? Because I mean we we're coming from a deficit of like we're not seeing God. So we still have to have faith. And I you know I'm just thinking about um how in heaven we have a special song that we get to sing that the angels can't sing. Adam and Eve don't get to even I don't I don't know. Well, they get to sing. It's the angels that can't sing. I know. I know. I know. But I was just thinking I know. I was about to say that. But but they I'm going to build on what you're saying.

They get to sing, but they still didn't go through exactly what we went through. Yeah. Just because we saw they saw him. They saw him. So So even like seeing him, we're the only ones who went through that, I guess. See seeing him and not seeing him again. And I feel sorry for them because then they got the fall and then they had to still live and live. I mean, it's sad mentally. It's Yes. Seeing him and not seeing him again is not really faith. No, it's like I saw you. I know what you said. I remember what you said.

It's it's remembering, but it's not like by faith I have to believe that God. So Abel believed by faith because he didn't have that experience, right? And so and it's been that way with everyone everyone ever since. I mean, yes, some have heard the voice of God, but by and large, right, we are acting on faith. Mhm. We are hearing the word of God, right? And faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. So Abel had to remember. Yeah. Right. He wasn't there. He has to go back to the past and remember.

After Abel is mentioned, it's then um it's Enoch. So, Enoch is mentioned next. And when I thought about that, I was like, well, what would Enoch have have uh what would he have to remember? And I cannot help but think that Enoch would have had to remember Abel's faithfulness even unto death. And so Enoch is like, man, this is how Abel lived. I'm going to live like that, too. I'm going to be faithful even unto death. And Enoch would have been so faithful. In other words, Enoch was so faithful that God said to him, you don't have to die.

He's building. Wow. On the faith of the one that came of the ones that came before him, specifically Abel. Yes. After Enoch, Noah is mentioned. Mhm. And I'm thinking, well, what would Noah would Noah have thought back to Abel to Enoch? Mhm. And it's interesting because in in uh Hebrews 11 um Genesis 5:4, here's what it says. Enoch walked with God and was not, for God took him. So that's Genesis 5:4. Genesis 6 verse verse 9 says this. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generation and Noah walked with God.

So here you have the Bible describing Noah as he walked with God. Well, who did that before him? Enoch. The Bible literally says Enoch walked with God. So Noah very likely then would have remembered back because remember faith is part memory. Yes. remembering what God has done in the past. Noah would have looked back and said, "The past, it fuels you for the present." Yes, Enoch walked with God. I want to walk with God, too. I'm going to follow after Enoch's example. And the Bible literally says that Noah walked with God, right?

And so, what does Noah do? He's faithful. He builds the ark. And then he preaches. And how long does he preach? 120 years. And he's preaching and preaching and preaching. And you're probably thinking, "Noah, you still preaching. Noah, are you still preaching?" Come on, man. Like, Noah's example was patience. Yes. Patience. Who is mentioned after Noah? It's Abraham. Now, we know the story of patience with Abraham, right? God gives him a promise. Hey, you're gonna have a son. Mhm. And Abraham, but he always he he wasn't always patient.

Well, I'm saying he struggled with it. He definitely struggled with it, but in the end, he was faithful. Yeah. At the end. At the end, he believed. Even though he he he wasn't even though he struggled with how God was going to bring it to pass, he never struggled that God was going to bring it to pass, right? But he put a little human put a little human tried to help God out and he ended up not helping him and making it worse. But but it still happened because God's God's promises or prophecy is going to happen even when we humans kind of put oursel in it.

Abraham never doubted that. Right. Right. He never doubted that. So the point is Abraham's faith and patience he had to have gotten from Noah's example. Mhm. So what we're seeing is that each example of faith that has gone before us is is designed to strengthen us in our walk. Yes. In our present walk of faith. Yes. I don't know. I'm trying going back to Abraham real quick. Go ahead. Well, I'm just saying because he he he believed it, but he kind of, you know, put himself inserted himself into different areas and kind of I don't want to say messed up because you can't mess up God's plan, but kind of, you know, did some things that I feel like God at the end almost was like when he asked him to sacrifice his son, it was like, okay, that was the ultimate sign of the faith.

Mhm. And he was like, "Okay, Abraham, you're going to prove that that other stuff you weren't." I mean, he was having faith through that, too. But he was putting again himself into it, and he didn't need to do that. And so, it was like God almost used that another opportunity to be like, "No, this is Abraham is my faithful servant." He got a little off course there, but look what he's about to do here. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. Yep. So, I think understanding this, we can then see that in the time of trouble, what is Satan going to going to tempt?

What is Satan going to attack? He's going to lead us to try to forget how God has led in the past. That was Israel's biggest mistake. That was Israel's like, let's not do that. Biggest issue, right? Mhm. So, so the so the devil in the time of trouble is going to try to get us to forget how good God has been to us. Forget the things that God has done for us and forget the things that God has done for others in the past. I'm bring this home a little closer. Little transparency here. This this what you're saying right here definitely and I want to encourage other well this is why we're here.

We want to encourage everyone but um especially parents, right? because sometimes they're in situations with their with their kids and they um their kids just aren't living the way they would like for them to live or they're just like, "Man, all that I taught you is just out the door." Like, it's just you're it's just gone or whatever. And I just think about um you know, as you guys know, we have four kids, all four adults now. Um but, um our oldest, you know, she went through some some some stuff, right?

And you still have two babies. They they're 21 and 19, almost 20. They'll be 22 in 2020 this year. So, they probably don't appreciate you calling them baby, but but they still are. Okay. They're still babies. But so, um, whenever Yeah. Well, let's talk about the babies. So whenever I go through a little thing with the babies or whatever, it's like I can look at the 30-year-old now and and remember where God brought her and that's so encouraging to me now if I go through anything or have gone through and I've definitely we've definitely gone through some stuff too, but it's like just having that experience helps my faith now to be like, you know what, Come on.

Yeah. God. God, you've already shown me what you do and what you can do and what happens through prayer. So, just trying to encourage other parents too because when parents do come and I I do I what I'm just sharing with you now is what I do share with parents um who are just so distraught and so upset about what their children are doing or they're just not in the right space. And I'm like just sapatismos chill rest. meaning because God, you know, you're praying, you're walk, you know, you're praying and you're walking by faith even though you cannot see.

And he is going to to answer your prayers. He's going to answer your prayers. Yeah. So faith then for your children and other prayers. But faith then is remembering all that God has done in the past, not only for you, but even for others. Right? So that's that's one part of faith, right? That's part A of faith, if you will. Part B of faith is the future, the God of the future. And this is where the promises of God come in. Right? This is where the prophecies of God come in. So faith is believing what God has said is going to happen before it happens.

Right? faith in the past. Hey, he's done it in the past strengthens. It gives us reason to believe that what's going to happen in the future is going to happen. So, for example, when I've been told I've been told before I became a Christian that Jesus was coming again. Yeah. And I was like, uh I mean maybe if he exists, which I'm not sure, right? But if he does, then yeah. But you know, Yeah. We don't know, do we? Mhm. We can't really know for sure and I certainly don't know for sure. So, I'm not going to give up, you know, all the stuff I'm doing on a hunch or a guess that Jesus might come again.

Well, you didn't know if he was real, right? Right. So, one night 20 I'm sure it was 30. 30. Yeah. I'm sorry. 30. The oldest child is 30. 30 years ago. Stick with that number and a little bit higher. 30 years ago. One night. 30 years ago. Mhm. I got a Bible study. And in the Bible study, I was shown the Babylon, Meo, Persia, Greece, Rome, Rome divided into all these different kingdoms, the rise of a little horn, and the changing of times and laws. Here's what that did for me. I like that re plant.

He said, "Past memories plus future promises equals present hope." Beautiful. That That was the equation. One of the equations. And I'm cuz I'm seeing people even putting the PM Yeah. plus FP equals PH. Mathematic equations. We got the math on this, y'all. Numbers don't lie, right? Here's what happened to me, you guys. Faith chemistry equation. Yeah. when I saw the past, you didn't have to tell me, or there was no longer any, "Hey, I need to convince you that Jesus is coming again." Because if head of gold, chest of arms of silver, belly, and thighs of brass, legs of iron were true, which as I looked back in history, I was like, "Wait a minute, that did happen.

That did happen. That did happen. Wow, God's word is faithful." Mhm. Then I knew without a shadow of a doubt that a stone cut out without hands will come and destroy the image on his feet and replace it with the kingdom of God. There's no question. So here's what happens. Faith in the past, right? Seeing what God has done in the past strengthens our faith in what he says is going to happen in the future. So faith in the past, God's word being fulfilled in the past, is his track record, his resume to say, "Here's why I want you to believe me about what's going to happen in the future."

Yes. Now, I want you to think about this because in the beginning for mankind, we didn't know God's resume, right? So, all we could do is be like, "Well, here's what he said. a seed is gonna come and he's going to crush the head of the serpent, but the serpent's gonna crush the the heel bruise the heel of the of the seed, whatever that means. And as all these, you know, as Abel goes through his experience, oh, as Noah goes through his experience, oh, wait a minute, God's word, it's almost as if God has been building his resume with us, saying, here's why I need y'all to believe me.

Here's my card. Check out my work in the past. M so when you go, you know, you try to get a job like you're you're an artist or you're a you're an actor or whatever it is, right? You got your resume. We want that and they would they say you see what's on the paper, but we want to review we want to view your work. We want to see your work. Yeah. Give me a sample. And you know what's so funny? You guys call all the other gods and ask the other all the ask all the other gods um show me your work. Give me your resume.

M they don't have a resume. Well, uh I am great. Their resume is destruction. Yeah. Okay. No, they have no resume. They have no record of things they've done in the past, right? Mighty acts they've done in the past. That's what I mean. Like, it's there's nothing there. Nothing. The record is, you know, here's my book. Here's my religion and my followers. God actually has a record with timestamps. Here's what I did at this time. Here's when I said that this would happen at this time. Here is this time prophecy that time.

And that's why with our time prophecies, the books of Daniel, the books of Revelation. These books are so heavily based upon things that have been fulfilled in the past that we don't have any need to doubt that there is coming a movement that is going to implement a Sunday law. Yeah, there's no reason to doubt that. Yes, no evidence. Yeah, there is literally no reason to doubt. We should have our faith in what our memory of what God has done in the past. should make it so that we don't have any doubt, right?

Well, how how is Christian nationalism going to become a reality in America? Listen y'all, trust me, Marxism isn't the enemy, right? Communism isn't the enemy of America. And that's not what y'all need to worry about. What's coming is what God said was coming, Yeah. And this is what strength. Remember, there's a third part to faith, right? So, we just looked at faith past. We're now looking at faith pre uh faith future. And both of those things combined now have an impact on faith present. All right.

Go ahead and say what you were going to say. Well, I was just going to say like how that was the piece that really answered all of your questions because you were probably would agnostic. I don't think you consider yourself atheist because you didn't you knew there you know you were you were searching right so um but that brought everything together for you the that you know had the evidence the proof um and I was just going to say as adventists like we those who have like me grew up in it and always just heard it and just took it for granted and it could have been building it's supposed to be building not well building and sustaining our faith throughout our whole process and I think um for I don't for many that they just take that for granted.

Yeah. And don't allow it to do what it's supposed to continue continue to do throughout throughout throughout our life. Yes. When we share it and try to witness to somebody and say but it really is to just continually build our faith. Yeah. To know that for sure we are not believing and I think a fake God. Yeah. I think for many for many of us we don't even know what the future we couldn't even explain Daniel too and that's the easiest and it's easy but for so many of us it's just like we're because you've been brought up in something you're just kind of like that's what I'm saying taking it take it for granted like you know the phrases you know what to say how to say it but can you teach it and I think the the the most difficult thing about that that reality quality is that Daniel 2 is so easy to understand.

It's really a basic history class. It's a basic a world history class. History class. And that listen y'all, Daniel 2 is what God used to convince Nebuchadnezzar that he was real. Yeah. Nebuchadnezzar has a dream. He's like, "What God? Huh?" And then when the when the dream is revealed to him, he's like, "Okay, now now I know there's a God." He's still not following him, but he's like, "Now I know that there's a God. Now I know that the God of Israel is real. It is a is a real thing. The God of Israel is real."

I was just gonna I was thinking the same thing and I was like like it's it's interesting that is real. Okay, that was Yeah, I never thought about that before. He's real. Yeah, he is real. Israel. I think I might preach something. I know. I never thought about that. I just never looked. Yeah, I just It just was clicking. Is real before I could say it. All right, so word play. Word play. Um All right. So memory of the past Mhm. plus hope I mean belief in the future strengthens your faith in the present.

That's what now enables us to presently walk in faith. Mhm. So remember Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, right? They are brought before the fiery furnace, before an image, which is very significant. Because at the end of time, God's people are going to be brought before an image, right? What kept Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? Mhm. First of all, remember one chapter earlier, two chapters earlier, in one of those chapters, they're like, "Hey, we're going to stay faithful." And what does God do?

God blesses them for their 10-day fast. God blesses them. They're like, "We know God is with us." But why did they even do that 10-day fast? Well, why were they so in why were they so convicted that they were willing to do that 10-day fast? Because they remembered others who came before them. Wow. Right. So, now they do this 10-day fast and they got they've got the the sign that God is with them in this 10-day fast. Daniel 2, they they have the dream. God gives them the interpretation. So, and in the dream, what is he showing them?

The future. Yes. So when it now comes to their present crisis, there's an image set up and in this image or with this image, you need to bow down. What is their response? They're not bowing down. Mhm. They're standing on faith. 10 toes down as the people say. I was just going to say, why are we saying why are we in sync today? What's going on? No. Well, I feel like I'm honored to be in sync with your biblical mind because I'm not all I'm not I'm not that. But I Yeah. So, and why are they standing 10 toes down?

Why are they standing on faith? Number one, because they're like, we know, well, they've the past what God's done for us in the past. We've already seen seen the future. They're like what the future is. And it's not worshiping you. I'm good. Yeah. Right. I'm good. And here's how good I am. Mhm. When I say I'm good, I don't mean, you know, I'm I'm not bowing down. That's what they're saying, right? Yeah. Even Even if God doesn't deliver us cuz he delivered us in He delivered us one chapter ago. He delivered us two chapters ago cuz there was a death decree.

Kill everybody because they can't interpret the dream. Right? So, he's delivered us before. But if he doesn't now, yeah, we need to be remembered. At first I was like, "Oh, no. They meant reminders." And see, and remember, if faith is about strengthening our memory, isn't that what the Sabbath is about? Remember how we talking about do these fruit of the spirit all come back to the Sabbath? If the Sabbath is designed to teach us to remember, remember the works of God. Remember what God has done and just the glory of God.

Remember the glory of God. Remember the goodness of God. Remember the faithfulness of Wow. Wow. W God's love. Remember God's joy. Remember the peace of God. Remember uh the longsuffering of God. Wow. I just got my sermon. And when you remember, and I have a mental health note for this, when you remember, when you when you're doing all of those things and remembering, that will lower any anxiety that you're experiencing, any depression that you are experiencing because remembering the goodness of God, the glory of God, the faithfulness of God, and just spending, the long suffering of God, all of these things, and especially on a day of rest, where you're clearing everything else out that you're just not dealing with any of that because God says that we can.

We don't have to worry about the bills. We don't have to worry about, you know, whatever that's going to take us away from that space and just remembering what God has done. Um it's like that anxiety can't coexist in that space. Yeah. And so that is something that um can help. I was going to take it too. I teach um or explain to clients that um when you activate the vagus nerve, the longest nerve and the nervous system, your heart rate slows down. You relax. Like so that's when we do the breathing, that's what happens.

There's other points on your body rubbing behind your ears. It activates that. But I was just thinking when we do this and just, you know, remember what God has done and all of these things with faith that also is activating the Vegas nerve because you're not breathing hard, you're not anxious, you're not afraid, you're not experiencing the fear, you're just sabot and resting with God. Yeah. So there's just so many benefits. We are to be rememberers. We're supposed to be rememberers. That's good.

That was good. That's good. So, so then they Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they remember the past. Yeah. They knew it was coming in the future. And it strengthened them to the point where they were like, "Though he slay me, yet will I trust him?" If he doesn't deliver me in this case, it's all right. Yeah. I'm still not going to bow down. I'm still not going to worship you. I'm still not gonna, you know, uh, distrust God. The power of the past memory and the conviction of what's coming in the future, that is what strengthens current faith.

Yeah. And I think the reason a lot of people don't have current faith is because they've forgotten how God has led them in the past. Mhm. They're unaware or for they are uncertain of what's coming in the future. And if you're uncertain of the future and you're and you're forgetful of the past, your present is present is going to not is going to be messed up. Yeah. Yeah. I just had a memory because we're talking about all of this and I want to share it. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. But I because you were just talking about remembering what God has done for us in the past and I just hope this encourages somebody.

But I was just thinking and remembering I'm remembering Clint um I Joshua would tell our son he's like the he's the timeke keeper of dates but um I'm trying to think of the year probably was is before the younger ones were born so had to be uh 2002 2001 maybe but you we went to San Diego for you to preach at a at a Korean youth camp. Um, and we were very poor back then. I mean, we were just barely paycheck to paycheck and sometimes not enough check. But we were on a train ride home. Well, we were about to be on a train ride home.

They, you know, you know, it was both of us and the two older kids. And when they were when they were the babies. When they were the babies. And we we wanted to buy them lunch before on the train. No, before the train. Before the train. Um because it was like going to be like a five, six hour train ride back. And we didn't have any money. We didn't have any money in our account. We couldn't buy them lunch. And the pastor who brought us to the was taking us to the train station, he saw that and I think he purchased it or whatever.

So, of course, that made us really, really sad and didn't know. I mean, we just I think we spent a week down. You were preaching to these young people and everything and we were going back like we can't even feed our kids. Anyway, so we get home and we go to the mailbox. Shame on me forgetting the exact amount. I want to say it was 10,000 or not 12. 10,000. Okay. I think it was something else that made it 12. Okay. But I think Okay. So, we we went to the mailbox and there was a $10,000 check in the mailbox unexpected and um from a friend of ours.

From a friend. From a friend. So, this is not a makeup story. Sometimes you think No, but sometimes like you know I was a This is so real. Like this is was so real. I mean our older kids could tell you that. Not doubting other people's stories. That's not what I'm saying. No, this is real. Sometimes just like you know that happened, guys. This really really happened. I remember Were you expecting the check? Did you just forget about the check? I was not expecting the check. No, what made it 12,000 is like I think I was telling a little bit about our business.

You did get paid, which was the the normal thing too. And so it took it up a little bit, but I remember going into the bank before direct deposit and stuff and and they saw that we were negative obviously. And then I'm coming in there with like almost $12,000. And I remember the clerk looked at me like, "How did you do this?" But but anyways, the point is talking about all this is reminding me. I'm remembering what God has done. So, not that we're in that current situation now, but I'm using that to feel my faith now.

Yeah. You know, and I don't think about that all the time. I should think about that more. That was before the prayer journal and all of that. I should really, but just speaking of this today, doing the Sabbath school is reminding me. We have a lot of stories like that that I need to be remembering more. Yeah. Um it's important to remember things. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, okay. Um, we haven't even included you on this whole study. We just been talking and talking. Well, they've been making comments and I've been trying to mention some.

Yeah. But there's time. So, I'm watching for your comments. Okay. I'm watching for Yeah. So, think about this now. Um the reason why faith is remember the past or the importance of understanding that faith is remembering the past uh understanding the prophecies or the promises of the future that bring you into a certain reality in the present is so that when God speaks you listen. Yeah. That's the purpose. Faith comes by hearing. Yes. And hearing by the word of God. Yes. So God speaks. He tells you to do something.

The the action of faith is h I remember what he's done in the past for those who obey him. I know that what he said in the future is going to come to pass. And therefore, what he says for me to do right now, I'm going to do. Yeah. Right. It's learning to obey and it's learning to obey immediately. Now, now, yes. Now, faith. So, Hebrews 11, now faith is is substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. So, I I did a little play on words, right? Now, faith. Now, faith. So, there's past, you know, past memory, future promises, and then now faith is the substance of things hoped for.

The evidence of things not seen. Moses did now faith like God told him step in the water now. Now, now faith, which is total faith because you're like, "Okay, the army's behind us. I'm going to step in the water and bring these people to just drown in the water." You know, it's like it was now faith. Urgent faith. Urgent faith. But God said now and he moved. So in my message I was talking about how you know when uh parents um that's funny I saw Robert said um so you know when parents uh will say to their children I'm only going to say this once I'm only going to say this once and they expect you to do what now?

Obey immediately. That's what faith is. Faith is o is immediate obedience. Faith is God doesn't have to say it 10 times for you to do it. God is trying to train us to hear his voice once and do it. We think we're such grown adults. We'd be acting like little kids to God. I mean, he truly is our father and we are his children and we act like children and just the thing about God is I'll say it again. I'll say I'll say it again. I'll keep saying how many different ways you want me to say. Say it. Yeah.

He wants to train us to listen. Because he wants to train us to act immediately, right? Um Simon says get up. When we play Simon says, you know, Simon has to say it once and you do it and you do it quickly. Mhm. It's the same when Jesus says something, he's trying to train us how to do it. And the reason why, and then we'll we'll we'll we'll wrap this up right around here, right? But this is kind of like the whole punchline to this, right, is that there is an ultimate command coming. There's an ultimate command coming.

And that ultimate command is the command to awake from the grave. Yes. So the Bible says in John 5:25, "The hour is coming, and now is when the dead shall hear the voice of the son of God, and they that hear shall live." They that hear shall live. Mhm. Those who are faithful to God when he speaks once will become so used to obeying God when he speaks once that when he comes again and says awake those I going to say awake. I said get up. You know, I remember trying to get you up for He will say awake a second time, but that second time is at the end of the millennium, right?

So all those we want to become one time. Yes. Uh one time callers, one time I hear one-times. I heard you. I'm doing it. Mhm. Those who train themselves to obey God's voice immediately will obey his voice when he calls from the grave. Guess who's not coming forth from the grave? Those who are like, "Yeah, I know you said it, but I'm just not listening. I'm not going to do it." So the more you train yourself to not listen to the voice of God in life, those people when the voice of God calls to come forth and he wants everybody to obey.

He does. He wants everybody to come forth. But those who are not used to obeying him in life will not obey him in the grave. He'll have to speak a second time. And when he speaks that second time, which is at the end of the 10,00 years, that's when the wicked come forth, God is trying to teach us to obey. So that when he gives that greatest commandment that has been ever given to humanity, the most beautiful commandment that has ever been given to humanity, which is awake. In one word, awake. everything, death, sorrow, crime, all of those things are gone with that one command.

But if we're not obeying the commandments of God now, if we're not hearing now, faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. If we're not hearing now, we will not hear when he gives that command. The way God is training us to to be able to do that and to become one callers supposed to call it. Um one answers one answers or one um is becoming in train train to to be in training for that is to learning how to be so sensitive to the Holy Spirit. Mhm. When the Holy Spirit moves or just it's not even the Holy Spirit doesn't um It's funny.

I'm going to use an analogy my my trainer tells me about. She's like because sometimes there's little movements that you can do. They don't seem like big movements and you don't think like you're building muscle or growing muscle just by this little movement, but the consistency of that little movement actually is making you stronger. Okay, that was from my trainer. But that's the same thing with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit isn't always pushing you to make huge movements. They're little movements that are making you stronger and stronger and more sensitive to the Holy Spirit's voice, to God's voice.

And so that's when you sign up for the training and relationship with Christ to really hear his voice, know his voice, and obey his voice is through the process of what the Holy Spirit Yeah. is always leading and nudging. Um, and sometimes we try to like, not sometimes, a lot of times we try to brush it off because we want to do what we want to do. But the Holy Spirit is just And the Holy Spirit is so gentle. Yeah. The Holy Spirit obviously it's God has the fruits of the spirit. So it's gentle. It's loving.

Yeah. Yeah. And I think that and I'm Yeah. The movement of that. Yeah. There's come Let me bring this back to the Sabbath and then I'm done. Done. Done because I'm still thinking about it. But if the we're remembering the day, not to remember the day. All right. It's a Sabbath. I'm remembering the day. And I think that's what Allah Okay. So, remembering the day. Yeah. The 24 hours. Yeah. Yeah. It's about remembering the God who delivered you. That's why you're celebrating the day, the God that created you, that's why you're celebrating the day.

So on the day he said to do it, Yeah. on the day he said to do it, he says, "This is the time I want you to remember who I am." And who is he? God is love. The joy of the Lord is your strength. Uh uh the the peace of God that passes understanding, right? All of these things, the fruit of the spirit are the attributes of God himself. And so in remembering, in taking that 24-hour period to meditate on God, you're remembering the goodness of God. You're remembering the faith of Jesus. All of these things.

And that's why and I think you know when we say the Sabbath is a seal of God it sounds for some people it sounds impersonal right a day right no no no no no the day is pointing to the God of that day right and the characteristics of the God of that day which are exemplified in the fruit of the spirit. Yeah. It's beautiful. So that'll be message number 10. Message number 10. Yeah. Because that's really it. And that's where not explaining it and sharing it in that way is what makes people want to say, "Oh, like Adventist, you're legalistic.

You're all about a day." No. I mean, no. I mean, yes, this it's the Sabbath. It's the seventh day. But when you leave that out, this part out, then it does become legalistic. Yeah. And that's not the example we want to show to the world. Mhm. Yeah. We want to show them this holistic the whole picture. Yeah. Yes. It's a day, but it's also about these characteristics of the God. That's right. That I want to introduce you to. So, yeah, we could go on and talk about this for longer, but we're going to pause.

We're going to stop right there. But it definitely was a blessing, eye opening, some things for me, a lot of things for me as well. It's a blessing. Amen. Amen. All right. So uh do remember that this is uh I'm going to be speaking on uh the the fruit of temperance today uh at our divine service and uh it's going to be it's going to be by the grace of God uh lifechanging. I believe it. I have faith. Thought changing too. I have faith the future, the past, all the messages that you've preached before are giving me fuel for right now to believe that this is going to be a blessing too because of God, because of what he does.

Um, so yeah, we definitely have um we have a a membership transferring wanting first reading. Okay, so we're going to do that, but we want to we want to pray. All right, let's roll this out. Heavenly Father, thank you for this study today, Lord. And just thank you for even uh bringing thoughts to our minds, Lord, as uh as we're going through this study, unexpected thoughts, Lord. Um but that help to enhance uh our understanding of of the spirit of the fruit of the spirit of the time of trouble, Lord, and what needs what we need to be um um who we need to be beholding, Lord, um and the character that we need to possess, Lord, during this time.

So Lord uh help us Lord as we continue in our study and I thank you Lord for um uh speaking to us through your word. Lord please continue to transform us and uh bless us Lord as we prepare to enter into our second part of our service. Um thank you for uh your love for us. Thank you for your spirit. Thank you for your grace Lord. And we pray all this in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Um we are about to do the membership transfer. But before I even um go there, want to also um let those members, the members, official members of Living Mana Church um that we are having a meet and greet today at 6 PM Central time and you should have received uh a Zoom link into your emails and um an invite to to join us.

So, just a reminder to if you did not if it was missed uh or go back and look and um want to make sure that you guys are there just so uh we can uh welcome some of our newer members and and um hopefully we'll even have some of the board members there that will be able to to join us as well. So, it's for all members. Yes, it's for all members, but we're but we're going to be um introducing new ones to you that we didn't get to actually that have not been a part of the meet and greet before. So, please hopefully you will be able to be there because we'd love to to meet you and hear more of your story and just get to know you a little bit a little bit better.

So, okay, with that, we have a first reading for Sharon Fay Johnson, who is leaving Granite Bay Hilltop Church and wanting to transfer here to LMLC. So, we are um excited and thankful um to have Sharon Johnson here at Living Mana Church. And also I'll be sharing during church how you can um transfer your membership. So I'll let you stay tuned and and so you can get that information if you are interested in doing that as well. I'll also be giving information about baptism and profession of faith as well too.

So we are um just looking forward to um just people joining the church and continuing to come and so we are just thankful thankful for that for sure. All right. So, definitely stay tuned, share on your social media. Um, and just, yes, share, like, if you haven't subscribed, please subscribe uh to the Living Mana Church YouTube channel. Um, so do all that, but invite your friends and family to church. They will be blessed. They've already, if they missed the first part of the uh of our service today, what we just did, you have to tell them they have to go back so that they can hear about faith as well.

But invite your friends and family uh to church and have ask them to worship with you and we will see you in the divine worship service. Amen. Deep down in the South Pacific, there's an Edenic island paradise that's hard to describe with words. Its beauty is breathtaking. Its climate is relaxing. Its people are welcoming. Its culture is enriching. Its food is fulfilling. And its water is refreshing. Perhaps these Melanesian islands are best known in the world by the water that quenches the thirst of thousands of people each day.

The natural artisian water of Fiji is the number one imported bottled water in the United States and is enjoyed in over 60 countries around the globe. And while most have never seen this beautiful land, many have been refreshed by its soft and smooth water. It is bottled right at the source high in the unspoiled rainforest of the largest of the Fijian islands vitile. As tropical rain falls upon pristine rainforest, it filters through layers of volcanic rock, gradually gathering natural minerals and electrolytes essential for the human body.

This life-giving water collects in a natural artisian aquifier deep below the surface of the earth, protected from external elements and uncontaminated by man, untouched by humans until you unscrew its cap and put it to your lips. Now, it's a little pricey in the States, but here in Fiji, it's very affordable. And we've been blessed by being hydrated by it day after day. You see, water is essential to every form of life. Every living cell, plants and animals and humans, depends on water. In fact, three of the five quarts of blood in the blood vessels of our body is water.

And of every 10 lbs of our weight, seven of it is water. Without water to drink, life is just unsustainable. Water is also a natural wonder. Its chemical formula is H2O, which means for every part of hydrogen, there are two parts of oxygen. Now, oxygen is flammable and hydrogen readily burns. But when uniting hydrogen and oxygen into water, you have the liquid that has the power to quench blazing fires and satisfy burning thirst. Water is not only essential for survival, it's also satisfying for life.

And in the same way, this is exactly what God is to us. You see, just as this Fijian water fell from tropical skies to saturate the soul of the earth, so too the healing rain Jesus Christ descended from heaven to earth to saturate the soul of our lives and to revive and refresh our souls. He is the heavenly rain and the living water, uncontaminated by the pollution of sin, full of the minerals of grace and the electrolytes of power, ready to fill the empty bottles of our lives. So, are you thirsty today?

Have the longings of your life remained unfulfilled and empty? Have you been drinking from the polluted springs of sin and selfishness? Or maybe you feel yourself dying in a drought of discouragement and despair, spiritually dehydrated by family issues, health problems, paralyzing addictions, painful rejection, or plaguing loneliness? Well, if so, hear the words of the living water to you today. Jesus said, "If any man thirsts, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scripture says, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water."

As good as it is, this Fiji water can only punch me for a little while. For Jesus said, "Whoever drinks of the water from the wells of this world will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water, springing up into everlasting life. And so today, let us go to the water source. And as we do, Christ will not only fill up the empty bottles of our lives, but he will also extort us into the world as living containers to share the water of hope in a world that is dying of spiritual thirst.

So let us come so that we can all go and that the water of life can freely flow. our bags and stuff shaking. Bruce is driving us. Thank you for helping us, bro. You're welcome. You're welcome. Yesterday, I was praying. Thank Thank the Lord that he answered the prayers. It was quick. It was fast respond. Yeah. So many people had sent words of encouragement, prayers. It really held me up for sure yesterday. Gave me power. last night when we preached on baptism. I preached right after this incident took place and I was weak.

Felt like fainting before I got up to speak. But when I was behind that pulpit, there was just there was supernatural power there. All those people came to the front, gave their hearts to Christ. Many wet eyes last night. The spirit of God moved in a powerful way. So the the officer just said that they found our stuff. Praise God. Special thanks to this guy. So the guy we thought guy who robbed us was actually the one who's trying to help us. So many people in life, they look upon God as one that's trying to rob our joy.

The God that just wants to make our life miserable with a whole bunch of restrictive burdens, but we don't realize that the very one that we think is trying to rob us is the one that's trying to save us. Amen. Mercy upon us. So we're in the police station now. We can't really film here inside. We're going to continue the story later on. I was uh 14 years old. I stole a whole bunch of things and I got caught and I got arrested just like you, you know, handcuffed. I had to sit in in jail and I felt so bad.

So, I know how you feel, man. Today, I get to travel all over the world and help people and share hope to others. Even though I made mistakes in the past, God still has a plan and a purpose for us. Same thing he did for me, he can do for you, too, man. Do you know Jesus? You've heard about him before. He died on the cross, man. To forgive us of our sins. God has a plan for you. He loves you and he wants you to He wants to use you to do great things. Let him change your life, man. You're 17 years old.

You can be anyone. You can do anything with your life. You probably felt like you had to steal so you can get money to take care of your family or whatnot. But when you serve God, he's going to take care of you, man. So, I want you to know that that we love you, brother. God loves you, man. Can I pray with you? Father in heaven, Lord, I want to pray for my brother here. Lord, this is your son and you love him. You die for him and you have a great plan and purpose for his life. And I pray, Lord, that you would turn his life over to you.

That you would help him to use his energy, his time, and his his talents, and his influences to to do good in the world. I pray that you'll help him to feel your love and to feel your forgiveness. And I pray Lord that he and his family will be in your eternal kingdom, but we never have to steal, never have to grow hungry. I thank you, Lord, for hearing this prayer in Christ's name. Amen. So, I'll be praying for you, man. I'm not going to forget you, and I hope that you won't forget me, too. And um God loves you, man.

Uh when are you leaving? All right, brother. Before we leave, just wanted to thank thank you and and your wonderful team. uh overnight we were able to find all our all our possessions, most of it at least. And that was very quick. Thank you guys so much for taking the time going door to door and just helping us. It was a very devastating experience yesterday. Keep you folks in prayer as you continue to keep uh this community safe that the angels will protect you as you seek to protect others. I'm wondering if I can just have a prayer for you.

And father in heaven, Lord, want to thank you so much for your great love and your mercy towards us. Lord, I want to thank you so much for the officers and the law enforcement, the team here, SUVA, and how they quickly responded and they did their jobs well. But we pray, Lord, that you'd send angels to protect each one of them. I ask, Lord, in Jesus name that you'd bless each one of them from the crown of their head to the sole of their feet. Bless this police station and everyone that works here.

We pray that angels would be always in this place. And we thank you for hearing and answering this prayer. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. God bless you. Thank you, brother. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. This is the man who helped us. So, last night when we preached at our seminar, we told the experience of what happened and so happens the deputy police commissioner of Fiji was watching our program and he responded and he called all his his workers and uh told them that we needed that they needed to solve the case.

And so, praise the Lord and uh the Lord used him to answer the prayers of his people. And so we just want to praise God for that. Okay. So we just got a text on my phone. Dear pastor Bula Vinaka, I spoke with you a while ago. I hope you are satisfied with the work of my officers. I was unhappy when I watched your grievance last night during the seminar. There is a sale in my house attended by the community members. I immediately contacted my officers to immediately follow up and I am thankful that you have experienced the service we provide.

Haka, deputy commissioner of police. We're very satisfied. We're going to go back to the river to the waterfall. The devil stopped us yesterday, but not for long. Nothing can stop God's work. So, we're going to go back. We're not going to let the devil win. Let's go. Told me sorry. You know, when I was about his age, I was arrested before So, just about 24 hours ago, right here at this exact spot, the devil stole my camera equipment. He didn't steal my joy. He didn't steal my peace. Tried to stop God's work, but God's work can't be stopped.

So, we're here again. By God's grace, even though yesterday he stole my camera equipment, we're able to steal some souls from his kingdom. as last night over 50 people here in Soua responded to the baptism appeal and gave their hearts to Jesus. So the Lord has already won the victory. The devil's a defeated defeated enemy. All he can do is all he can do is distract us. But God has won the victory. Wow. What an amazing day we had today. From the tragedy of yesterday, we experienced triumph today.

Yesterday was a mess. Today is a message. Yesterday was a test. Today is a testimony. Yesterday we were victims but by God's grace today we remain victorious in Christ with all that's happened we just want to thank God and even though we had a difficult time yesterday we still love Fiji Fiji timeaka the Welcome back living mana church family. So happy that you are here with us and continue to worship with us today here at Living Mana Church. We are so thankful that you are here. And if you have just joining us for the first time, um please put in the chat where you are viewing from so we can say a special welcome to you.

And if this is your first time worshiping with us, please put in the put a one in the chat so we can know that this is your very first time. But we are so happy and thankful that you are here with us today. It is a blessing to worship with all of you from all around the world. Um it is just living mana church is is just a huge blessing and um it is our anniversary month officially. It's April 9th, but we start celebrating early on April 1st. We start celebrating uh my my birthday month is March, right?

So, my my birthday is actually March 31st, but I celebrate the whole month. So, here at Living Bit Church, we are going to celebrate the anniversary um the in the whole uh for the whole month of April because we are just so thankful to God and we are three years old. We are three years old. That is amazing of what God can do. God is so faithful and you are so faithful as well to him because he is the one the Holy Spirit moved upon your heart to even come and check us out and then you did and you obviously were blessed by what you were seeing and hearing.

So, you keep coming back and we are so thankful uh to God and to you for supporting Living Mana Church. This this upstart, if you will, this this new thing, this idea, this experiment, you know, and it has went from all of those things to a full-fledged church. We're thankful to the Nor Eastern Conference who gave us uh our first chance because like we are the first official online church of this of of of the 7th Day Adventist Church. And so we are just so thankful to God, to you, the Northeastern Conference, just everyone that has helped Living Matter Church to be who it is and be here for this long.

So we are thankful. But I want to say welcome to Lisa from Vancouver Island, which is so Yeah, you put it so pretty. I haven't been there, but I've heard that it is so pretty. So, I I want to I want to be there at some point. I know I can't I don't get the name, but I see the Virgin Islands. So, I'm sorry I missed that. It went up kind of fast. We have But welcome. And and Regina, I believe from Brooklyn. Welcome. Looks like Latoya is happy that you're from Brooklyn. I'm assuming you're from Brooklyn, too, Latoya.

Um hi, Zadina. So, good to see you. Know that you are from my hometown, Pastor Robels, California. Good to see you here worshiping with us. Uh Sister Jerry, good to see you um as well. And I probably have missed some because I was just talking away just talking about how happy uh we are. Okay. And we also from Europe. So I'm not don't know specifically where in Europe, but you but we got your your continent there in Europe. So welcome here to Living Mana Church. So good to see you. All right. So, yeah.

All right. We did Vancouver Island. So, we just want to welcome Crystal. Oh, so good to see you, Crystal from Spokane, Washington. Our sweet Crystal Cox. You are so dear to Living Mana Church. You um and your children and your husband, your late husband was such a blessing to Living Mana Church. Definitely here with us from the very beginning making um Living Mana Church so special. and Crystal was our very first profession of faith and so you have a very special place in our hearts here at Living Mana uh Crystal.

So we're just so happy to see you. Uh we Serbia, welcome. As you guys know, this is an international church. So we have uh members and viewing audience from everywhere. And so we're just so thankful uh to be able to to be able to do this with you each and every week. It truly is a blessing to spend the Sabbath with all of you. And you know, and let me do this one. Beverly uh from from Florida, the Orlando area. Kiss kiss to me. I always think I say that wrong, but hopefully I said it. Okay. I know that's in the Orlando area.

So, Beverly, hopefully we get to meet you for sure at the convocation because it's right in your neck of the woods, right there in your backyard. So, we look forward uh to seeing you. Okay, there's more popping up. Let me let me do more. There's Janice from BISE. Good to see you here at Living Mana Church. Um, so good to to have you here. So good to have you all here. So, as we've stated, this is an international church, so we have people from everywhere all around the world. But if you want to stay connected to Living Man Church, which it's really important to stay connected because uh we are um a virtual church, right?

So, we don't see we don't go to an actual physical building every week and see each other every week in that way, but we still can stay connected. And there's several ways that you can do that. And I want to um just really encourage you to sign up to be able to do that. So, if you're here in America, you will be able to get text alerts so you can be reminded of the programming when we go live, um different announcements that we um that we will have um throughout the week. And if you haven't done so so far, please sign up for the LMLC text at 855207-4107.

Uh that way you can even scan the QR code there in the corner and that way you will be able to stay connected with uh Living Mana Church and get those text alerts. Also, Mighty Networks, even if you're even if you're getting the text alerts, you still need to sign up for Mighty Networks. And those who are international, you definitely need to sign up for Mighty Networks because you can't get the text alerts. So, our church virtual home, our hub, our home is Mighty Networks. That's where you're going to see announcements.

You get to meet members there. You can leave prayer requests there. You can find out all the small groups that are there, meet the leadership, meet other church members and viewing audience, and just stay connected. You can have dialogue. It's all kinds of things that can happen in Mighty Network. So, if you're loving Living Mana Church and you want to uh stay connected, be a part of the things that we do here and just get to know people here at Living Mana Church, you need to sign up for Mighty Networks.

And that link uh was in the chat. So, you will be able to do that. And we are just so thankful uh to all of you that you do want to stay connected and that you are being blessed by living me Excuse me, I can't talk right now. That you are being blessed by living mana church. And so signing up to get text alerts and going to mighty networks. That is how you are going to be able to do that. Want to remind you that we do have children's programming lc kids and Locosc uh 30 minutes before we do um central standard time um before we start our divine worship service.

and they run about an hour and a half. And so we are just so blessed to have uh the leadership uh with LMLC kids that love working with the kids. And you know, they're not just entertaining them. The kids do have fun, don't get me wrong, but they are teaching them the deep things of the word. They're learning photo theology concepts and are really learning the deeper things in the word of God. So, but they also do a lot of the fun things that kids likes likes to do with arts and crafts and they have wonderful story time and music and all types of things that the kids really enjoy.

So, if you want to get your kids involved in LMLC kids, please uh send an email to the the leadership team and they will share with you how to get your children involved with LOC kids. You can also um just sign up for the text um and you can just put kids to that 855 number and there you will get more information as well. So if you're one of your kids to get involved, that's how you do that. And if you want to become a member of Elos of the Living Mana Church, you can email Patrice at living.live.

She will share with you the different the three different ways that you can become a member. It's one you can transfer your membership. Um if you are already an an a 7th Day Adventist and have a me and your membership is at another church and you want to transfer, you can do that. You can join by profession of faith. If you've been baptized, don't feel like you need to be rebaptized but would like to join the Seventh Day Adventist Church. You can do it that way as well. Or you can be baptized um and become a Seventh Day Adventist uh and a member of the Living Mana Church.

And all you just need to email Patrice livinga.live live and you will be able to get that information to do one of the three ways that you can become a member here at Living Mana Church. Also want to let you know that Pastor Meyers does have virtual church uh office hours and so want you to, you know, definitely take advantage of that. If you feel like you need to meet and talk with the pastor, please just email Patrice livinga.live live and she will set that appointment up for you. Also, if you have prayer requests and you would like to uh send that into our prayer team, just want to share with you how um you are able to do that.

You're going to be able to send an email uh to the prayer team so that they can get your prayer request. Also, if you sign up for Mighty Networks, there's the prayer wall is there and you can leave your uh prayer request on the prayer wall. But if you if it's confidential and you just don't want to put it out there like that and just want to send it to the prayer team, um just email praymanana.urch or you can text with that 855 number. Our prayer team is on it every day. They pray over your prayer request and when God answers your prayers, you can send a testimony of how God answered your prayer to that same email.

Um, and um, as you can as you see that how sister Ammer reads the testimonies of the answered prayers and people look forward to that. That's a highlight of their Sabbath just to hear how God is answering prayers uh, for so many people. And she can share that if you would like for her to share that to just show how God answered your prayers. We would also like for you to subscribe to the living mana um church channel, my living mana on YouTube. If you are watching on uh power of the lamb, then please go over to the living mana YouTube channel and click subscribe so that you can also uh view from there and that will help grow our living uh mana channel on YouTube.

you guys are doing that because we are well over 6,000 subscribe subscribers on Living Mana and so we are thankful that uh that is happening and you know like I said today this month is our anniversary month and we have asked that you guys send some videos in and I'm going to ask that again. I want to we want to share and show you uh the first uh set of videos that have come in at this time as we are celebrating. But I also want to uh put that email up so that you can continue to those who have not yet send your videos in for the living mana anniversary month.

You still have time to do that and you can send those to coach777gmail.com that you can see there on your screen. So, please take some time to write that down. If you have to come back after the broadcast is over, you can do that just so that if you would like to celebrate with us and let us know uh what Living Mana Church means to you, excuse me, and wish us a happy anniversary. Uh please send in your video because we want to hear from you. But at this time, we want to hear from those who have sent in some videos.

Hi, this is Angela reporting live here at the LOC news desk reporting breaking news on Living Mana Church. It appears that they have just crossed over into the third year of their anniversary. Yes, their church anniversary. Congratulations, Living Mana. Now, most people still want to know why Ivormeer started this online church. But Sister Ortante, our first lady, describes the church best as it is phenomenal. Let's take a listen. And again, living mana, we're proud of you. Congratulations. Is asking, why do you meet online instead of at a church?

Ah, Kathy. Yeah, it's a good question and it's a good way to kind of for those that are maybe watching for the first time or will be watching for the first time, you know, um there are uh many people that will never step foot in the church. Right. Right. Um the Living Man online church is uh our mission is to reach the unreached. It's to reach people who for one reason or or another may have had a bad experience in church. um never stepped foot in the church, but we get to come right into their living rooms.

We get to come right into their, you know, wherever they're right on their rights. Yeah. Um and you know, we we're we are totally fine with being a transition church where, okay, I started online, but now I'm going to a physical church, you know, right? Um we have members, uh praise God, we love online, and I'm never going anywhere else. You've heard it all. Yeah. So, uh people are getting fed here. But the key thing about what I want you to understand about this church is that um our mission is to move people in their communities to be light in their communities.

So it's not just about coming to online church and just you know watching the here and go out go out and share. Absolutely. This is your feeding place. So uh so that's kind of it in a nutshell but uh you know I think it's a good question because it's a it's a new thing. It's a new thing. It's a great question and But by the way, the fellowship that we have amongst our members, you took it right. It it's people we've never met 25 years in ministry and I people we've never met in person. Never ever.

Y'all make me feel loved. Y'all make me cry in good ways. Y'all make me uh You make us feel loved. Make us cry in good ways. Like we just we love you and we feel the love. And it's not just for us. the members amongst each other feel the the love between each other and so it's just it's phenomenal. Yeah. Like it's just amazing. So it's not for everybody. You know, we get that there people a lot of people need that physical uh you know I have to physically touch you interaction but uh you know again it not all things are for everyone right so but this has been a blessing to a whole lot of people and it's been a blessing to us and um you know it's uh we believe the Lord is doing something uh unique and mighty with this church.

So, you know, praise God for that. Amen. Happy anniversary, Alc family. My name is Sandra Silus, and I'm one of the moderators for the gym adult Sabbath school lesson on Friday evening. There's nothing like having our members who join us to share with us what the Holy Spirit has impressed them as they study the lesson through the week. It's a quarterly lesson put out by the SDA church. So, no matter where you are in the world, we're all studying the same lesson. Please take time to join us. We would love to hear from you.

Happy anniversary, Living Mana. It's been three years since we started this online church. We pray together. We laugh together. We've cried together. But the one thing that we're all doing together is we're headed towards Jesus together. Happy anniversary, Living Mana Online Church family. We love each and every one of you. God bless. This is Tina Whitehead from the Gems and Adult Sabbath School. Just jumping on to wish you guys a happy anniversary and not only to you but to the entire church. We have made it for three wonderful years.

Looking forward to seeing you guys in Orlando for the convocation. God bless and goodbye. That was just such a beautiful video. We I when I first watched it, I was like, "Oh, this is so amazing." and just to hear from some of you the blessing that Living Mana Church has been. Um, and so please send in your videos as well because we want to celebrate with you. This is just an amazing thing that God has done having Living Manage Church here for three years. Um, and we are still going. We are so thankful for all that he has done.

Um, part of that is we have more have created more ministries. You guys have created more ministries, I have to say. And the women's ministry has something amazing coming up on April 13th. It is the cook off. And I just want to share more about that with you just how you can definitely so you don't forget and we'll tune in for that. But the women's LLC's women's ministry invites you to a live cook off Sunday, April 13th at 700 p.m. Central time on Zoom. Several of our sisters have accepted the seven ingredient challenge and we'll be preparing a healthy tasty meals right before our eyes.

While the while they cook um we'll be sharing helpful tips on healthy eating and there will be a live question and answer session uh where you can ask questions and join the conversation. Let's all come out to support our sisters, learn something new, and enjoy the evening of fun food and fellowship. That sounds like fun. And um I kind of want to be a part of that. I I'm thinking I have a a dish that I think is seven ingredients that I think will be fun to share. So, I want you to be a part of it, too.

So, please don't forget Sunday, April 13th, 700 p.m. Okay, I said central, but that's Eastern. Glad that I did look at that because I sure did say central. So, Eastern time, 700 p.m. Eastern time. So, that's pretty cool. Just seven ingredients. Can you make something really, really tasty and healthy with just seven ingredients? Will come and find out. And this is a woman's ministry event. So, we just love that our women's ministry is active um and just doing um amazing things um here at Living Mana Church.

Also, just want to update you on the convocation. It's not really an update, it's the same, but just to remind you, I guess I should say that the convocation has moved to October 30th to nove November 2nd. And yes, we will be in Kiss Me, Florida. that's in the Orlando area. And so we want you to be there. We want to meet you. And I think we're trying to do something similar actually at the convocation um close to like this cookoff similar to that. Excuse me. Where Pastor Myers is going to be involved in it too because I always tell people he's just as good of a cook as he is um a preacher.

So believe it or not, he is the cook of the home and I think he's going to be doing uh some amazing things there at the convocation. But you have to come and check it out. You have to be there to be able to experience it. Um, and there's going to be others who are amazing cooks that are going to do some amazing things. So, you don't want to miss the convocation. It's going to be fun. It's going to be uh, of course, spiritfilled the fellowship. Uh, we're going to be still going deep in the word and in prayer.

It is just going to be an amazing experience. So, you need to register, sign up, and prepare. Put it on your calendar. Start making the preparations now. But if you need more information, please e email convo@ livingmana.urch or you can scan the QR code there that you see on your screen. So we are excited and looking forward uh to seeing you there. Also again just want to remind you guys that because we are an international church that means we go all around the world and because of that the whole world doesn't speak English as you all are very much aware and so we want to go around the world with this message of uh the gospel in the languages of the world and so we were been blessed here at Living Mana Church because of your faithfulness to be able to purchase uh a system that allows us to translate Pastor Meyer's sermons and to seven different languages.

Um, and so we are really going to be perfecting that within this next year. I mean, it's already started, but we just want to grow and get better at that. We have an editor that edits the sermons and even the um the the slides into the language. And so, we just want to give you a taste of what that looks like. So, if you're wanting to support uh LMLC Global with your financial gifts, please please do so. But we want to show you what that looks like. And uh I'll give you more information after you.

Um we have Spanish today. So you can hear Pastor Meyers preaching the message in Spanish. So that is what LMLC global looks like. Um and that today was in Spanish and there is a link so you can go um on to YouTube channel for LMLC Global and check out the different languages that we have there. But if you know someone that speaks any of those languages, please share these messages with them. Uh that is the purpose of LMLC Global so that they will even share it with others within their community that speaks that same language as well.

Want to um this will I'm yes this will be the last time I'm going to remind you guys of this but are just to give you this information. If for if for any reason you have not received your uh tax receipt from 2024 for your giving to hear from Living Mana Church, please email our intram treasurer. Um and I'm going to give you that email here shortly. Um here it is treasure living mana.live. Please email her there and you will be able to get information or get she will be able to get you your receipt to you by at this late date it would be through email.

But if for some reason you have not received it, you should have received it. But if not, please email our treasure at that email there. I know I received I we received ours this week. So they've definitely been going out and um I know many have received it. So but if there is an issue, please email our treasurer there. We just want to again say thank you for giving and supporting Living Mana Church in these last these past three years. You have been such a blessing. Um God has just put it on your heart and you have responded and we thank you.

You help Living Mana Church do all of the things that we are doing through the power of God. Um we are able to have the type of equipment we need uh to be um to have this professional look that we do to be online and to just go out into all of the world. And if there's an issue and we are a needing to purchase something else to be able to sound better, look better, we are able to do that because of you, because of your giving. So again, if you would like to continue or start supporting living mana uh church, you can do that by going to adventistgiving.org.

This is how you can do it virtually. You can click in the right hand um corner and you will be able to get a tithe envelope, a virtual tithe envelope. There you can um you'll see so many different categories, but you can give your tithe. You can give your local uh church offering and there are there's a place where you can give to the benevolence fund where we're able to help people who are in need um when they're requesting some assistance. Your tithe goes to the to the Northeastern Conference which helps support that conference and the worldwide church.

your local church giving to our local church budget helps to support Living Mana Church and the things that we are doing here with Living Mana Church. So, we just um really thank you for giving and we are so grateful for your uh faithfulness to God and to supporting hi his work that goes around all of the world. That is one way that you can give or you can mail in uh your tithe and offering. Um, you can do that by sending it to PO Box 428, Owens, Crossroads, Alabama 35763. You can send that in and please put a note in there to say what's for tithe and what is for offering or if it's for uh the benevolence fund.

And you will see so many different categories uh on that tithe envelope. that if you know specifically or to support Living Mana Global, just let us know where you would like uh those funds to go and we will make sure that it goes to the appropriate place. So again, we just thank you for your faithfulness through your financial gifts, through your prayers, through your attendance, through talking about Living Manage Church, sharing the videos with your friends, uh letting them know that there is an online church where they can be spiritually blessed, find a church family, connect with people, um and just have a great experience.

And that is what you do for us. And so we are just very thankful. But would you please bow your heads with me as we come to God in prayer just thanking him again for his faithfulness and his goodness to all of Heavenly Father, Lord, just want to just thank you once again for your Lord, just who you are and what you do and how you um just make Living Mana Church, an online church, be a community where people can become come to and be healed and learn uh your the deep things in your word and experience an amazing uh prayer journey here with you, Lord, and just be blessed.

And it's all because of you because it sounded pretty well my words that I thought was wow that sounds pretty crazy like how's that going to work and what conference would go for that those were my I lacked faith God I lacked complete faith at that time but you have proven to me that look with you with you all things are possible and you have turned this idea this experiment into a full-fledged church that blesses people all around the world Lord I want to pray right now for every family um that is that is going through um marriage issues, parenting issues, just relationship issues in general.

And I just pray for them. I pray for those who are going through health issues. Lord, those who are grieving uh thinking of our dear brother Elco who is grieving uh the loss of his mother this week and he is such a blessing to Living Mana Church uh through the prayer team and leading out in the men's ministry and uh he's been on several times just leading out on Sabbath mornings in prayer. And so Lord, I just pray that you will be with him, bring comfort to him and his family as they are going through this uh grieving experience experience losing his mom.

And Lord, also want to lift up sister Anne. She's having some health issues. She produced that amazing video. Um and so I'm just praying that you will bring healing to her as well. Give her peace and comfort um at this time as as she is um in the process of healing, Lord. And so Lord, I just again thank you for this Sabbath. Thank you for what you have done for this church. Want to lift up Pastor Meyers and the message that he is going to bring that you have given to him today. Lord, let it move upon the hearts of every hearer, every listener that will hear this message today and in the future, Lord, as they go back and listen to the replay.

Lord, I thank you again in Jesus name. Amen. I stood and stared from a distance. couldn't understand how this one man, bruised and blistered, would stand with taunts and whispers. I felt sick just as a witness. Who could deserve this? What did we miss? I'd seen death before, but not death like this. The Jews called him a savior. I guess the Romans thought not. What pillar stands that a perfect man that washed feet with his own hands should be lost? Why does the crowds cry sound like victory? They celebrate as they serenade his misery.

They thought him a king and yet he wears such in glorious glory. The crisscross trunks of torture are raised to the sky. This cross clenching an orchard of new life. One last breath he finally cried. It is finished. Such words beg the question, is death all I witnessed? Perhaps the prophets and pages had something else envisaged that this self-sacrifice fought life along with it. But this life claims dominion over death's very existence. I stood and watched from a distance. One woman, heartbroken, reminiscing, is greeted by angels.

I watch her shock as she listens. For the tomb that bound eternal love from its mission is broken open. Love's unrestrained resistance. The house of death is put to rest. It's done with its persistence. The bindings of sin have run thin. Its captives cry good riddance, but their debts are nothing less but for the means of delivering. The thorns are outgrown by the rows in between. The constraint on our souls are torn at the seams. And every inkling of darkness is overwhelmed by peace. For this light's illumination has nothing beyond reach.

And as for this heartless death which I bore witness, one thing is crystal clear. It is finished. There will be mountains that I will have to climb. And there will be battles that I will have to fight. But victory or defeat, it's up to me to decide. But how can I expect to win if I never try? now. I've come too far from where I started from. Nobody told me the road would be easy. And I don't believe he's me. Never said there wouldn't be trials. Never said I would afford. Never said that everything would go the way I wanted to go.

But when my back is against the wall and I feel no hope is gone, I'll just lift my head up to the sky and say, "Help me to be strong. I just can't give up started from. Nobody told me the road would be easy. And I don't believe he's brought me this far to make me. I know you didn't bring me out here to leave me lonely. Even when I can't see clearly, I know that you are with me. So I can't give up. I've come too far from where I And I don't believe he's said I can't give up. I just can't give the road would be easy and I don't believe he's easy.

And I don't believe he's brought me this far to leave me. And I don't believe he's brought me this far to leave me. And I don't me to leave me. Here at Living Mana, we bear each other's burdens. When you need support or prayer, when you're feeling discouraged or alone or anxious, you don't have to face life struggles alone. Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy. and find grace to help in our time of need. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit.

Greetings saints of the most high God and welcome to another edition of living manners prayer and praise time. So happy to be here with you. Here with my lovely bride Amra as always. And listen, Living Man of Family, we are happy and excited to be able to serve you in this amazing capacity. Shout outs to everybody that's watching us from everywhere today. We saw you in the chat earlier when First Lady was doing the uh announcements and the welcome. So glad you could be here with us. We love y'all and want to thank y'all for all of your prayers.

Um want to kind of get right to business today. doing some special shout outs and stuff, but Amry has a lot of praise reports. We're excited about that because I mean, we don't we we want to be about the good news, you know, for those of you who probably tune in and watch your local news, you know, they love focusing on the negativity, right? Exactly. Not here. We're gonna tell what the Lord has done. Shout out to you, Brother Clint. I see you in the chat right there, Sister Christie, South Carolina.

Hallelujah. Amen. And look who's back. Sister Ayana, we missed you last week, but you are back. Mighty Warriorette in the chat. You and your crew encouraging and praising. And listen, saints, y'all watching. Y'all been kind of lazy with the with the prayers in the chat today. I'm just, you know, just saying. Uh, we're here. So, if you have prayer requests, um, put them in the chat. I mean, I would have liked to call more earlier, but now we're going. So, um, I'll just get the ones that I did get.

And Christina No, go ahead. Cuz you know what though? I really have a special shout out. Can I do a special shout out? Yes. We have a very special birthday today. Now, this was a birthday announcement from social media. So, if it's incorrect, I apologize. But if it is correct, happy birthday to our very own Living Mana online church secretary, Patrice Delisser. What? Yes. According to social media, today is Patrice's birthday and we want to say a special happy birthday. We love you, sister. Everyone, please.

Well, well, happy birthday, Patrice. this is your birth because I mean I've been texting with the with the with the with the tech team and I didn't know anything about a birthday. Well, I got a notification on my phone and I did not want this time to go by without wishing Patrice a very happy birthday. So, if y'all could wish her a happy birthday in the chat. I don't know if she's here today. She might be celebrating, but Well, happy birthday, Sister Patrice. Praise God for that. And if it's not, whenever it is, we're gonna do it again.

So, but happy birthday from the heart today. Yes. Amen. Amen. Now, let me get back to these shout outs. Okay. Sorry. Um, Brother Elco, um, man, listen, we want to definitely shout out Brother Elco. First lady already did, but Brother Elco was on post today. I mean, he was serving even though he's his heart is heavy and he's grieving. We just want to say we love you and we thank God for you, my brother. Uh, continue to stand by you and support you. uh and and want to be here for you any way we can.

Also, Sister Angela uh who is currently in the hospital and I believe she's watching. Sister Angela been dealing with some health issues and we want to continue to pray for you and Sister Angela's special ops team. You know, they have been faithful from day one, continuing to support and pray for Angela. Y'all be encouraged. The Lord is using you continually. Uh be strong. You've seen him bring Candela through a lot of storms. So, don't be discouraged. Don't feel like uh he's not listening and you're not making a difference.

You are. You are a saint. Want to shout out Sister Sylvia Martin if you're watching. Sister Sylvia, we love you. We miss you. All of our uh uh living man of family down in San Jose down in the East Bay area. Elder Drewa, uh Sister Andrea, Lady Daniela, shouting y'all out. Brother, you know, everybody we met down there and we know down there and love our family there. Brother Oscar, if you're watching, God bless you. Amen. Amen. And I want to also send a special shout out to Sister Annette Rivas.

If y'all attended Power Wednesday this week, then you saw she hosted and and just so cheerful and inspiring and encouraging everybody. Sister Annette was going through a serious storm at the time. And to look at her, I was just sitting back just watching, you know, because I'll watch and see what the leaders are doing and how they're ministering. She was just ministering so powerfully and lively in the spirit of God and just had a big old smile on her face and I was thinking, "Wow, she's going through that terrible trial, but yet she's here trying to lift up somebody else."

So saints, I tell you, one of the ways to get the victory really to walk into the victory that's ours is focus on someone else and how you can be used to help someone else even when you're going through. I love what Sister Atante was talking about this morning. First lady was talking about some of the things that the students were saying at Oakwood last night. You know, um, goodness and mercy shall follow you all the days of our life. You when we study Ephesians chapter 6, we see the whole armor of God.

There's the belt, there's the shoes, there's the helmet, there's the breastplate, you know what I mean? There's the sword of the spirit, there's the shield of faith. There's not one part of that armor to cover your back, but goodness and mercy got you. Can you say amen? That's a good That's a good thing to know. God didn't give us a piece of armor for our backs. He gave us He give us goodness and mercy to cover us. They shall follow us all the days of our lives. So, praise God. Angela in the chat.

Yes, she's there. Okay. She promised us that she would be watching and we'll be praying for her. So, we we love you, Sister Angela. And one more. Sharon Faith Johnson, thank you uh for all that you do for the Lord. So glad that you're now coming in as a member of Living Mana Church. that thing you saw Angela do with the news. You know, we have more than one news correspondent here. You know, Sharon Fay Johnson is an awesome news correspondent. She does some beautiful things. We did a surprise birthday uh love bomb for Sister Joanne.

And Sharon Fay got right into the uh the character of the news uh lady. And so Sharon Fay, come on in. I got some ideas, some things we can use for sister if you were willing to work together with us. And I know you are. Praise God. One more shout out and then I'm gonna um say this. Uh I'm going to give it over to my lovely brides. I want to shout out the Living Man of Tech team. Oh my lord, what an amazing bunch. I mean, Sister Patrice, Brother Gavin, Brother Josh, I mean you guys, Brother Colin, who I'll be seeing tomorrow by the grace of God right here.

And we're gonna spend a little time together. Praise God. And uh we got some amazing things coming. And so, thank God for our tech team. team. They're doing an amazing job. Believe me. Let us not take for granted. Sorry. I was just going to say we want to shout them out. Not just when things go wrong. Yeah. When everything goes right, things go right a lot of the time. So, yeah, we do want to shout them out. And and so, yeah, thank y'all for all that you do. Love y'all. And um someone mentioned, oh, we want to thank those of you who took the initiative to post the 100 days of prayer link in Mighty Networks.

Thank you for that. You know, we have so much going on at Living Mana with our own uh programming and we have some things in the works and some ideas coming up. It just didn't seem to be practical for us to stop everything for 100 days and do the 100 days of prayer. But if you pray and ask the Lord how he can use you, you can get the link. You can download the materials and say, "Lord, how would you use me to do this? Maybe I can participate with a small group in my home as an individual or maybe in your uh one of your small group ministries or you can pass it out to other people."

But uh praise God for that and for everybody who took the time to post and share as much information as you can about that. Uh we do appreciate it. We do appreciate it very much. We also want to invite you today remember the afterlow. Sister Jerry will be hosting the afterlow today and uh we will look forward to uh her leading us through. You know I wanted to say something. Pastor Andante, we're gonna whenever Amber does the praise reports, we're gonna come back. I was really inspired listening to Pastor Andante's story about remembering some of the awesome things God had done for them, you know, and how they were out here in San Diego with the children and then they went back home and and and went to the mailbox and there was that big, you know what, as I was listening to them tell that story, I started say, Amber, come on, let's let's go let's walk out here to this mailbox because Lord, I was inspired by that.

Oh my god. So anyway, praise God. I wanted to take a walk to the mailbox. Okay. Well, praise God. That was a special blessing, right? Amen. Amen. Okay, sweetheart. All right. Well, before I get into the praise reports and some reminders about emails that you can uh send out, I just wanted to share a very important need that we have. So, we have an amazing prayer team and we need more people on our prayer team, especially for special ops groups. We have a lot of people in need of daily prayer. Amen.

And it doesn't take special talent to pray. We all can pray. This is something that everyone can do. And so, you know, we really have a need to have more prayer warriors. Do not don't be intimidated by the word warrior either. Um, you know, we have some some amazing people um really praying for us, but we need more. We need more prayer warriors. We need people to step up to the plate and pray for our Living Mana members. We're even praying for people outside of the church um and just wrapping our arms around them and walking them through their their their issues, whether it be health issues, whether it be financial issues, we have a lot of need.

And so, um, if you would like to join the prayer team, um, and a special ops prayer team under the prayer team umbrella, please send an email to pray living manana.urch. That same email can be used if you have a prayer request for yourself or a loved one or a praise report that you would like to share. and then I will read that on uh a future Sabbath. So if you have a request for a special ops team for yourself or a loved one and we have a lot of requests and not enough people to pray. So um please send an email to spec ops that's s ps living mana.urch.

If you would like to join the women's ministry, please email women living manana.urch. And finally, if you would like to join the men's ministry, please send an email to seven loaves. That's sen l a vivingman. Church. All right, first praise report. This one was sent to me um from Sharon Fay Johnson. I also want to apologize because I read a praise report that was also sent to me and I accidentally um said it was from her and it wasn't. It was from an anonymous person and so I apologize for that mixup.

Um but Sharon Fay says, "I've been in the wilderness running. Something happened that made me realize it was time for me to come home to Living Mana Online Church. I realized that this is a true fate that I did not absolutely need to walk away from. I'm so happy. I have not been happy since I left LOC and I have gained my happiness in Christ since I have made the decision to return. Praise God. Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus. And the blessed Holy Ghost spirit truth. Glory. Hallelujah. Come on, somebody.

That's rejoicing right there. Yes. That's a praise report from Zagwa Malangu. Thank you prayer team for praying for me. It went well and I am now awaiting the final judgment from the judge. May God bless you all while awaiting the response. Help me to thank God. So praise there from Stacy Ferguson. Praise report. The animal sanctuary dryer broke in between rainstorms in California. We were able to place the washable pet pads, which are the majority of the laundry, out on the fence daily, load after load.

Then we put the dryer pads back in the dryer with no heat to remove the hair and lint almost every day for a week so we never fell behind in the laundry with God's help. At the end of the week, we were able to pay a helper to install a used dryer that needed a few repairs, while a friend ordered the sanctuary a brand new dryer, which will arrive in April. Praise God. Amen. Amen. From Petal. Hello, Warriors. I'd like to thank you for your prayers. Monday, May 31st was officially my last day at my current employer.

Although I considered leaving Germany, the authorities here are quite supportive and I intend to do some further upskilling training over the next four or five months to be better positioned to meet changing market demands. I'm praying for you all, Pastor Myers and family, brother Terry and Sister Amoris, Sister Pauline, and the rest of the team too. God bless you all. Thank you, Pedal, for your praise report. And I absolutely love your name, too. Amen. Amen. From Leon Riley. Shout out to you guys who prayed for my mom.

She was first referred to hospice care. Then she was given rehabilitation, but we took her home to care for her. With your prayers and trust in God, we just received the news that her lungs are healing well. Hallelujah. Our lungs are clear. We praise God for his miracles for my mom. I was actually waiting to hear that she had passed. Thank you for your prayers. I have two praise reports from Pauline Goodine. The first one, Nahima and her nursing cohorts all passed their final exams. They are now starting their next journey to becoming an RN, registered nurse.

Amen. They wanted me to tell the team that they truly appreciate their prayers. Hallelujah. And praise report number two. I want to brag about my God who came through and protected me and my family through the tornadoes that descended on Nashville, Tennessee. Glory to his mighty name to protect and save. Hallelujah. Praise his name. And I know that she was in a in a hospital concurge or or somewhere in there where they were all kind of hunkering down from the the tornadoes. Yeah. From Shaunene Wright, thank you Jesus for another day of life.

I praise you for answering my prayers, the prayers of my sisters and brothers. Thank you for alleviating my pain in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. And finally, I caught this uh praise report in the chat this morning from Katie S. might sound a bit silly, but thank you for praying for my mom's allergies last Sabbath. It was quite bad prior, but now she's having no symptoms and she doesn't take meds for it. And that is not silly at all. No, not at all. So, we praise God for your mother feeling better. Allergies are Amen.

not not not a good thing. So, Amen. So, amen. Praise God. And listen, you know, um sometimes we could just read over those praise reports and take Let us not do that and take it for granted, saints. God is a good God. He does hear and answer prayer. And so, uh as as Ammer said earlier, you know, we do need more prayer warriors. You know the quote that sister White said, you know, angels, mighty angels, awesome angels, awesome creatures, look at us and they wonder with the power of prayer why we don't pray more than we do.

And you know, we ought to pray more saints. We really are. We hear the saying sometimes, well, the least I can do is pray for you. No, that's not the least at all. That's the most you can do when you truly understand the power of prayer and how instrumental it is. is I was sharing with the prayer warriors u last week and probably a little bit more the week before even how Paul told the Philippians you know we were going through it he told the sec he told the Corinthians we were going through it but you helping together through your prayers and the supply of the Holy Spirit God delivered us he does deliver us and we conf we're con we're we're confident that he will yet deliver us but Paul made sure that he put in the scriptures by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit the importance of the prayers of the saints and it's powerful ful and instrumental in the deliverance.

That's the plan that God has a part of his plan that for deliverance, for salvation, for healing and and and and for the furtherance of the faith of the saints has been about our prayers. And so encourage you to keep on praying. Want to thank all of our living mana prayer warriors and warettes. Y'all are something else. We couldn't do what we do without it without you. And so all of the ministries, the vision, the purpose of living mana, everything is covered by that spiritual air coverage that you provide when you're on your knees praying.

Want to thank those of you who are not officially a part of the prayer ministry team, but we know some of you are indeed prayer warriors. I know that. I've talked with you. I fellowship with you. I've prayed with you. And so, thank you for continuing to pray. But uh and they're so selfless going through their own trials and their own situations. and they never stop praying for other people. Yeah, that that's been the theme lately. That's really been the thing with brother Elco and sister Angela has been doing it for some time now going through their own storms.

We had a thing where every time a new prayer warrior joined our ranks, storms broke out and sometimes we were wondering, should we say anything? We sit back and watch and sure enough it happened. But God using those storms made us riders of the storms, spiritual storms. troopers and we're going to pray here in a moment. But God used those to bring us closer to him, to teach us to trust and rely on him because some of the same storms that we went through. We were praying for people who are going through the same stuff.

So, thank God for his goodness. And so, today we want to remember to pray for our pastor and our first lady and their family. uh the entire LMOC family, board members, our leaders, all of our ministries, everything, our our vision, our sevenfold vision that God will uh bless living man and hold it up. And we'll pray in just a second here. Want to remember to lift up brother Elco and his family. Elco just lost his mother. Sister Angela who's in the hospital. We're praying that the Lord deliver our beloved sister to us uh shortly.

Want to pray for all of the special ops teams uh prayer teams and all of our LMOC warriors. Whether you're on a special ops team or not, we're praying for them. Want to remember sister Ashley Owens who needs and as soon as possible she needs an MRI and an EEG. She's been going through a series of uh having seizures and even losing consciousness and she wants to get to the bottom of that. So Ashley, we're praying for you urgently, most urgently. Uh again, uh we want to remember Margot Begley. She's asking for healing for Gloria.

Uh spiritual insight and conviction for Robert. Uh Laya is asking that we keep her and Wes in our prayers that Wes would be approved for his rheumatoid arthritis medication that that would be paid for and be taken care of. And as you know, Sister Laya and brother Wes are have been praying uh earnestly to move to Idaho. uh sister Katie who we just uh thank God for her her mother's allergies being relieved last week as we prayed for her. But we're also asking the God to bless her and touch her that her thyroid would shrink so she wouldn't have to have surgery.

Sister Esther White is asking that we continue to pray for her recovery from surgery. Praise God for you, Sister Esther. We will. Sister Anetta Carr has been having uh severe respiratory issues and wants us to keep her in our prayers. We will do that. Uh want to pray for all the tornadoes in the south. everybody that's been affected by those. Um, I want to remember to pray. Alexander Sonatada Santana just gave us a prayer request via email asking for deliverance over self, world, and the enemy. And he's praying that his children will want to follow Jesus.

We're praying for Tanya, for Mitchell, uh, for Connor, for Corey, for Na, Nico, uh, Sahara, Karina, and Shane. So, praise God. Hallelujah. Nurse Sandy is asking that we would pray for Haiti. Her old neighborhood has been overrun by gangs and the gangs has have literally run people from their homes. And so these people are now homeless. And so we are praying Lord in the name of Jesus. Swoop down through that neighborhood with those angels and drive them out. May they hear uh the rushing of a mighty wind through that neighborhood and run those gangs folks out of there.

And um it's spiritual is asking. She says that she's living a Job's life, physical, mental, spiritual, and financial. She says she's never been rich nor righteous like Job, but she believes she's in a many Job situation. We a lot of us know what that's like, sister. Uh and so we're definitely praying for you. It is spirit. It's spiritual. Uh and that could you could be a brother or a sister. I don't I'm not sure, but uh do excuse me, but we will be praying. Whoever you are, we're praying. Um we also want to pray for Mr.

Sneaky has started attending a new 7th Day Adventist church and he feels like God is calling him to lead out there, but he wants to do that in the right spirit. And so, brother, we're praying for you that God will lead you and guide you uh in that new SDA church that you're in. We need it. Brother Tom and Joyce Fiser, SH sister Joyce just was released from the hospital on Wednesday. She had an intestinal blockage. So, we'll be praying for her strengthening and recovery. Tom and Joyce, we love y'all.

Thank y'all for all the work that you do. we have not forgotten about the homeless ministry that you've been involved in. We're definitely praying that. Um, Sister Vivian Shelton has asked Shelton is asking that we pray for her daughter Sabrina Quinn. Uh, she's going through a series of storms in her life and some anxiety and stuff there. So, we're we're praying that God bring her on through. Um, um, Sister Gigi has asked that we would pray for the health of April Allen. Uh uh we do know sister Allan and we thank you uh for for sharing that with us.

Sister Gi, we will definitely be keeping her in prayer. We're praying for brother Dron Jones uh that the Lord will just surround his life with his goodness. We're going to pray for the puppy Judah. Uh I knew you'd still have that dog by now, Gigi. So, praise God that uh the Lord will uh bless the dog and bring healing. Praying for the graphics and communication team. Each of them have been going through some storms. just going through saints and the rest of the prayer requests that you may have put in the chat if I did not get them or one came through or there maybe there's some unspoken prayer requests in that chat.

Listen saints, our God is big enough, big enough to cover it all. And he is amazing miracle working God. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's the rose of Sharon, the lily of the valley, the bright and morning star, the lion of the tribe of Judah. He's a friend that stickketh closer than a brother. He's a rock in a weary land. Water when you're thirsty. Bread when you're hungry. He will comfort you when you're going through it in your heart and mind. Let us give him praise and glory in this place today.

Father, in the name of Jesus, hallelujah. God, we lift you up. You have heard these prayer requests. You have heard the needs of your people and all that they are going through. Lord, we know that not only do you have the answer, but you are the answer. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus, and fill our hearts today. Forgive us for the sins that we have committed against you in word and thought and deed. Things we should have done and did not do. Things we know we shouldn't have done and done in any way. Lord, have mercy on us in our weakness and infirmities.

Come and wash us, cleanse us as we confess our sins and send them forth to judgment. Lord, Lord Jesus, blot out our sins from the record of heaven. We pray in your glorious and wonderful name today, God, that we might stand in communion and fellowship with you, Lord. that we might walk in the light as you're in the light and that the blood, the precious blood of Jesus would cleanse us from all unrighteousness and sin today. Lord, we're not asking just that you would forgive us of our sins, but we're asking, oh God, that you would continue to cleanse us and wash us, purge us with hissip that we might be clean.

Wash us, oh God, that we might be whiter than snow. And thank you, Lord, having heard our confession today. Lord, you're also hearing our prayers on behalf of ourselves and others who are in need. Thank you, Lord, that you are Jehovah Gyra. Thank you that you are the alpha and the omega. Oh God, you're the same yesterday and today and forever. Oh God, you know the ending before the beginning even begins. Give us a new perspective, oh Lord, of these storms and trials that we're going through. Help us in this memory training that we would look back and remember how faithful you were not only in our lives but in the lives of others Lord God who you've left us the sacred record to read and you've left us these praise reports to see how you have brought us through.

You're no respector of persons. Hallelujah. What you've done for one, you will do for another. I don't know anybody less deserving than me. But God look at the grace and mercy and the goodness you've shown in my life. Oh God, chief of sinners. Oh Lord, as far as I can see, as far as I know, and you had mercy. Came all the way down, hallelujah, to a prison cell, Lord God, where I was surrounded by oppression and darkness, chaos and madness. Men who had resolved to live the rest of their lives in prison, in darkness, hurting and hurting one another.

Lord, in Jesus' name, you can save from the guttermost to the uttermost. Heal, touch, and deliver. Someone listening today may be at their wits end. Someone don't see an answer. Someone don't see a way out. Stretch forth thy mighty hand and do miracles, signs, and wonders today. Lord, in the name of thy holy child Jesus, relieve the oppressed, Lord. Set the captive free. Provide for those in need in Jesus mighty name. God, miraculously come through. Somebody need to take a walk to that mailbox today and open it up and find that check in there.

Just the amount they need, oh Lord God. And if it's more, may they take and give to somebody else in need. In Jesus' name, you are able to provide just as you brought a coin out of a fish's mouth for your servant to pay taxes. You still work miracles for gold and silver are all yours, Lord. Cattle on a thousand hill. It's yours, Lord. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. We lift you up and we magnify you today in Jesus name. Lord, we cast down our doubt, our unbelief, and our fear and our anxiety, our our anger, our bad attitudes, everything that has plagued us and stood between us and your perfect will for our lives.

We cast it down today and we give you all of the glory. Hallelujah. We give you all of the honor and praise because you are worthy. And thank you, God, for being mindful of us. We thank you for hearing these prayers today and answering these prayers. And now, oh God, with the peace of God beginning to flood our soul even in this very moment, flooding our heart and mind as we think about the goodness of God. Hallelujah. We're now ready to hear your word today. Thank you for our our pastor. Thank you for your servant who has consistently and faithfully, Lord God, uh stretched forth his hand to take hold of the hand of omnipotence in order that he might feed your sheep.

Thank you for this faithful shepherd, Lord, in Jesus name that you have brought to Living Man a church. Lord, we pray as we are as he's bringing this word and breaking the bread of life today that our hearts would be attentive that our minds would be alert that our feet would be shaw with the preparation of the gospel of peace that we not only hear it we not only believe it but we walk it out we obey it in Jesus mighty and glorious name father and so Lord we just thank you we praise you we bless you today on your Sabbath in Jesus name and all God's peoples declare amen Amen.

You are here moving in our midst. I worship you. I worship you. You are here working in this place. I worship you. I worship you. You are here touching every heart. I worship here healing every Cuz you are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper, light in the darkness. My God, that is who you are. Oh, you are way maker, miracle worker, promise keeper, light in the darkness. My God, that is who you are. here turning lives around. I worship here men in every Oh, you are way maker, miracle worker, darkness.

My God, that is who you are. That is who you are. Even when I don't see it, you're working. Even when I don't feel it, you're working. You never stop. You never stop working. You never stop. You never stop working. Even when I don't see it, you're working. Even when I don't feel it, you're working. You never stop. You never stop working. You never stop. You never stop working. Even when I don't see it, you're working. Even when I don't feel it, you're working. You never stop. You never stop working.

Even when I don't see you working. Even You never stop. Cuz you are way maker, miracle That is who you are. That is who you are. That is who you are. are. Sing wide, all ye heavens. Let the praise go up as the walls come down. All creation, everything with breath. Repeat the sound. All his children clean and pure [Applause] hearts. Oh Lord my God. When I in awesome wonder consider all the works thy hand hath made. I see the stars. I hear the mighty thunder. Thy power throughout the universe displayed.

Then sings my soul, my Savior cry to thee. How great thou are. How great thou and sings my soul, my savior God to me. How great thou art. How great thou are. And when I think that God his son not sparing sent him to die, I scarce can take it in. That on the cross my burden gladly bearing. He bend to take away my sin. This is my soul, my savior. I when Christ shall come with shout of acclamation. ation and take me home. What joy shall fill my heart then shall I bow in humble adoration and they proclaim my God how great thou art until that day when heaven builds us welcome and as we walk this welcome Come for reward.

Your kingdom come. Deliver us from evil and will our God how great you are. We hope we sing. Our God. He sings my song, my savior God to me. How great are great. This sings my song, my Savior God toe. How great thou. Amen. church family. I want to welcome everyone to uh living mana once again. Uh we are getting ready to uh get into part nine of the nine essentials for the time of trouble series. And uh today I believe God has something very powerful, many things powerful to say to us. And so we're going to go ahead and jump right in.

And let me just say real quick, I was not able to hear that intro just now, but it looked really, really, really good. So, I'm looking forward to going back and listening to that intro um once this is over. Um, but we're going to be talking about temperance today. So, go ahead and put that one in the chat if you are ready to get into the word of God. And, um, we're going to go ahead and and pray. Let's do that now. Heavenly Father, um before we get into this message, Lord, I want to lift up faith uh who has just mentioned in the chat that today is a difficult day for her.

It is the um I believe it would have been their 15th year anniversary, her husband and her, but he's passed. And Lord, today is a difficult day for her, Lord. And so I just lift her up. I lift up her children. Um, and Lord, um, I just ask that your presence would be with them. Just keep them. Just watch over them, Lord. And today, Lord, we're praying that you would speak a word to us. Lord, you've given me a whole lot and I'm I'm asking you that you would help me to make this message clear that you would speak through me, Lord, and that you would speak that your people may hear and receive it.

So Lord, bless us now as we as we get ready to eat. Bless this meal, Lord. Bless this mana today is our prayer in Jesus name. Um, all right. Let's go ahead, guys, and uh and jump in. I see the ones in the chat. Uh, we're going to go ahead and go to our very first slide. Uh, Daniel 12 and verse one. Daniel 12 and verse one. The Bible says, "And at that time shall Michael stand up the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people. And there shall be a time of trouble such as never was since there was a nation, even to that same time.

And at that time thy people shall be delivered, everyone that shall be found written in the book." We're told in the book of Daniel that a time of trouble is coming, a time unlike any other time in this world's history. And the only ones that will be protected in that time of trouble are those who are described in Revelation 7 11. Note with me, Revelation 71, I'm sorry, Revelation 7:1. Uh the Bible says, "And after these things, I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree."

And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God. And he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, saying, "Hurt not the earth, nor the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads." We understand that the seal of God is the work of the Holy Spirit who is the sealer. The Bible tells us, "Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed unto the day of redemption."

The Holy Spirit is the sealer, and the Holy Spirit is sealing us with his character. In Galatians chapter 5 22 and 23, the Bible says, "But the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and temperance. Against such there is no law." Against such there is no law. We have spent uh the last nine messages or last eight messages uh on each one of these fruit temperance I'm sorry uh love joy peace longsuffering gentleness goodness faith meekness and today we are dealing with temperance what does temperance mean in the time of trouble our love our joy our peace our longsuffering our gentle our faith, our meekness, and our temperance is going to be tested.

They are each going to be tested. Therefore, it is crucial that we understand what these fruit mean and how they are manifested in the life of the believer. So, what is temperance? Temperance is self-control. Put that in the chat for me, please. Temperance is self-ontrol. self-control. So what we can understand from this is that our selfont control will be tested. Now self-control actually kind of simplifies or makes this this understanding of temperance simpler than it actually is. And we want to get deeper into this understanding of self-control because I think when we get deeper into this thing of self-control, we're going to see things that we may not have seen before.

And so what I'm going to present to you today is that there are two sides to intemperance or there are two sides to this question of temperance. Side A is in tempmperence in sin. So y'all go ahead and put that in the chat. In tempmperence in sin. That is side A of the issue. Side B of the issue is temperance in righteousness. Temperance in righteousness. So A temperance in sin. B I'm sorry. A inmperence in sin. be righteousness. And we're going to look at these two sides of the question of temperance in order to better understand what we mean when we say self-control.

What we mean when we're talking about the fruit of the spirit being temperance. So I want to suggest to you that the very first sin or the cause of the very first sin in the Bible is in tempmperance. The cause of the very first sin in the Bible or in fact the very first sin in the Bible in the book of Genesis in the garden of Eden was the sin of tempmpance. Let's go to the screen and I want you to note with me Galatians chapter 3. I'm sorry. Uh, Genesis chapter 3. Genesis chapter 3, beginning with verse 1.

The Bible says, "Now, the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Ya, has God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden." And the woman said unto the serpent, "We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden. God has said, you shall not eat of it, neither shall you touch it, lest you die." And the serpent said unto the woman, "You uh you shall not surely die, for God does know that in a day you eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and you shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat, and the eyes of them both were opened. And they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons. Now, what what's going on here? Why are we pointing to to this uh this event and connecting in temperance with it? I want you to know this.

Prior to Eve's fall, her thought was of the future. The word of God, God himself has told me how to live. He has told me how I should uh the things that I should do. He has he has instructed us and Adam and Eve's only desire was to live out the future that God had in store for them. So y'all put a one in the chat if that makes sense to you. Their only concern, their only God had for them. All things are going to be good. By the way, just don't do this. But if you do this, everything is going to be good.

After her discussion with the serpent, the present now bea now began to carry more weight or now carried more weight than future. All right, y'all put a two in chat if you follow what I just said. Before Adam, before her discussion with the serpent, they were only concerned with the the the the picture that God had painted for them. This is your future. Go ahead and live that out. But Satan comes along and he offers her something present. He's offering her something in the now. Come on, let's break this down.

I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna give you a statement and we're going to work off of this statement. In tempmperance is when the desire for now exceeds the desire for the future. All right, we're going to be doing a lot of numbers today, so I want you to put a five in the chat if that made sense to you. And temperance is when the desire for now exceeds the desire for the future. Come on. In tempmperance is based off of four faulty premises. And we're going to see each of these in what happened with Eve.

So number one is urgency. Number two is fear. Number three is pleasure and number four is self-preservation. These are the four things that inerence is based upon. A sense of urgency, a sense of now, there is fear, there is pleasure, and there is self-preservation. So for example, urgency. Satan proposes to Eve that in the day that she eats this tree, everything's going to change for her. In other words, the sooner she eats from this tree, the better things are going to be for her. You got to do this now, Eve.

You can't wait. Do this now. What I want you to understand, beloved, is that in tempmperance typically leads to taking actions now that are going to jeopardize your future. Am I making sense? So number one, Eve, if you don't in the day you eat thereof, the sooner you eat of this, you're going to be better off. There's a there's a sense of urgency. You got to eat from this now, Eve. Don't wait. Eat from this now. Number two, fear. Fear, Eve. God is holding out. God is holding something back from you.

Something that is causing you to miss out. To miss out. Let me ask something. How many of you have ever have ever exercised in temperance in how you eat? I'm just going to give you a a a very simple but powerful example. An inmperance in how you eat. Like you know you shouldn't eat it, but the temporary pleasure you're going to get from it. You don't want to miss out. Anybody ever had that experience? I'mma eat this man cuz I don't want to miss out. I'm afraid of passing this up because I will miss out.

Which leads to number three, pleasure. So, there's a sense of urgency. Satan's going to tell you, "Do this thing now." There's a sense of fear, you might miss out. There's a there's there's the offer of pleasure. So note how in the text it actually says when she saw that the tree was uh was pleasant to the eyes. Pleasant to the eyes, a tree that was desirable. And temperance is often wrapped up in a desire. There's an urgency. Do this thing now. There's fear. I might miss out. There's pleasure. Man, this going to this going to be good.

And then there's self-preservation. This is going to make me feel better. This is going to make me uh h this going to make me happy. This is going to make me happy. So those are the four things. Urgency, fear, pleasure, and self-preservation. Are y'all with me so far? I want you I want to show you this in another example. Let's go to the book of Genesis chapter 25, and we're going to read verse 29 and 30. Notice what the Bible says here, speaking about a man by the name of Esau. The Bible says, "And Jacob saw pottage.

And Esau came from the field and was faint. And Esau said to Jacob, "Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage, for I am faint." Therefore, his name was called Edom. Reading on, "And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright." And Esau said, "Behold, I am at the point to die, and what profit shall this birthright do to me?" And Jacob said, "Swear to me this day." And he swore unto him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils, and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way.

Thus Esau despised his birthright. We're going to track the same four principles here. Number one, urgency. Did Esau have this sense of urgency in the story? Yes or no? Was there a sense of urgency? I am about to faint. And if I don't do this now, we're going to save that last point for later because that comes under point four. But there is a sense of urgency. Is there fear? Yes. Behold, I am to the point. I am at the point to die. And what shall this birthright do to me? Are y'all following? Pleasure.

So urgency right there. Fear right there. Pleasure. Feed me. I pray thee with that same red pottage. Man, I want to feel good right now. Feed me. good. That's going to be pleasurable. And then self-preservation. I'm at the point to die. What is it going to profit me? This birth right? I'm going to die. If I eat this, I will feel better. And so what does Esau do? Listen to me, y'all. He trades away his future for the present. Do y'all catch it now? In tempmperance is the trading away of your present.

It's like trading down. What does that mean trading down? Trading down is trading something of a higher value for a lesser value. Are y'all with me? Esau traded down. Temper in temperance is the act of trading down of of of giving up something of the future for the present. is foolish trading, y'all. It's a kind of trading that makes you go like, "Wait, what?" It's the trading that reveals, listen to me now, it's the trading that reveals that while you profess to believe in eternal life, you're actually more into the principle of yolo.

Anybody know what yolo is? What is that? Y O L O. What does that principle represent? What what does that uh uh acronym represent? YOLO. Let's see. You only live once. That's right. exposing or the revealing of an attitude of yolo. I only live once. I better do this or else I'm going to miss out. A and yeah, I'm trading down. But but here it's like Luke 12:19 says, you'll see it on the screen. I would say to my soul, soul, thou has much goods laid up for many years. Take thine knees, eat, drink, and be merry.

Like enjoy life now. You only live once. You only live once. This idea, this understanding of inmperance is basically trading righteousness for sin. Are are y'all following what I'm saying? You're trading, it's almost as if you're liquidating your future blessings for present temporal satisfaction. You're just liquidating your blessings because it's a trade. In tempmperance is a trade. Every time an inmperant act is made, it's a trade. It's saying, "Hey, I'd rather live for the present than for the future.

I'd rather live for present sin than for future righteousness and future promises and future glory." Come on, let let me give you one more example. Let's go to 2 Samuel 11:2. 2 Samuel 11:2 the Bible says, "And it came to pass at evening tide that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house. And from the roof he saw a woman washing herself, and the woman was very beautiful to look upon." And David sent and inquired after the woman, and one said, "Is not this Basheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hitittite?"

And David sent messengers and took her, and she came in unto him, and he lay with her, for she was purified from her uncleanness, and she returned unto her house. I want to see if you can see the four premises of inmperance. Was David in tempmperate here? The answer is absolutely yes, he was. Was there an urgency? I gotta have this now. I have to have her now. That's what inance is. It is I've got to have it and I gotta have it now. Fear. If I don't have her now, I might miss out on her. I might miss out on this thing forever.

So, I better do this now for fear that something is being withheld from me. Was there pleasure? Yeah, the text literally says that she was pleasant to his eyes. She was beautiful to look upon, urgency, fear, pleasure, and then and then self-preservation. I will be happier if I get her. I will be satisfied. Are y'all following me? These four premises, urgency, fear, huh uh pleasure, and self-preservation are the basis of inmperence. Now, let me ask you a question. When you exercise intemperance in something, you're addicted to something, do you sense those four things?

urgency. Gotta do this now. I don't have the I can't help myself. Got to do this now. Fear of missing out. If I don't do this, I might suffer. Pleasure. If I do this, it's going to feel real good even though I know it's wrong. Self-preservation. If I do this, it will make me feel happy. These are the things of inmperence. This is this is what Satan comes and offers every time he's offering an intemperate act. Um, I want you to note what's happening when I said in tempmperance is a trade. I want you to see what I'm talking about.

Come with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 6 20. 1 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 20. And look at what the Bible says here. The Bible says, "For you are brought bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit which are God." So, let me ask you a question. Does the Bible say that we are bought with a price? Absolutely. Absolutely. We are bought with a price. That means God has purchased us. Jesus has purchased us. And I want you to notice what he purchased us with. In Acts 20:8 28, it says, "Take heed thereof unto yourselves and and to all the flock over the which the Holy Ghost has made you overseers to feed the church of God, which he has purchased with his own blood.

We have been purchased with the blood of Jesus." And in that purchase, watch this. In that purchase, according to Romans 6:23, the Bible says, "For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." So in our being purchased by the blood of the lamb, he also purchased our future. He purchased our He purchased eternal life for us. He's purchased our future. So here's what happens, beloved. In temperance is when we take what Jesus has purchased for us and we say hm birthright versus present pleasure.

I think I'mma go ahead and sell the birthright for present pleasure. Just like Esau, just like David, just like Eve. Therefore, every intemperate act is you saying present sin is worth more to me than the future investment of God, than the future promises of God. In temperance is trading down. Whereas we should be trading up. Trading up is when you're trading something of lesser value for something of greater value. In tempmperance is doing business with Satan. How H how how is that? How's that sound?

And temperance is is a business transaction. Hey, Satan says, "Hey, listen. Um you give me your future." You know what's crazy? As I was reading that story of uh of uh Jacob and Esau, Jacob did something wrong. God never told Jacob, you know, try to get the birth right this way. He did something wrong. But in that which he did wrong, that is an exact picture of what the devil wants to do with us. Hey, what will you give me for the birthright? What will me what will you give me for your future? It is making a deal with the devil.

So So watch this. Now we can understand in Matthew 4:1. Now we can understand this. Let's go ahead and read this. Then then was Jesus led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights, he was afterward hungered. And when the tempter came to him, he said, "If thou be the son of God, command that these stones be made bread." But he answered and said, "It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedth out of the mouth of God."

Now let me ask you a question. Was there urgency here? Was there urgency here? Jesus, you're hungry and you're hungry now. You've been hungry for 40 days. Was there a sense of urgency? Was there a sense or or let me ask it this way. Was Satan trying to trying to put upon Jesus a sense of urgency? Was he trying to put upon Jesus a sense of fear? If you don't eat now, you'll suffer longer. I'm trying to help you out here. If you don't eat now, you'll suffer longer. By the way, if you turn this stone to bread, man, wouldn't that be pleasant?

Wouldn't that be pleasant? Wouldn't that be so pleasurable? M think about that warm bread just just crumbling in your mouth right now and then just filling your stomach. And by the way, self-preservation, you'll feel better. It'll make you happier. Satan came to Jesus with these four underlying premises. A a a sense of urgency. Man, you've been hungry for 40 days. Fear if you don't eat. By the way, not only if you don't eat, but really, are you the son of God? Are you sure, man? You know what? If you really are, then you should have power to turn the stone to bread.

Aren't you afraid that you're not the son of God? You know what? Hey, why don't you go ahead and do this? A sense of urgency, a sense of fear, pleasure. Hey, this bread is going to make it's going to satisfy your hunger, self-preservation. You will feel better. But let me show you how Jesus responds and how we should respond to each one of these four false premises. Come on y'all. Psalm 37:9. For the evildoers shall be cut off, but those that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the earth. When the devil comes with a sense of urgency, you got to do this now.

You got to have this now. You say, "Nah, I'll wait." That's what temperance is. Temperance is saying, "I'll wait." The devil says, "No, you got to do this now. You got to get into this relationship now. You got to have this thing now. You got to get this thing now." And it's often those intemperate actions that get us into the trouble that we get ourselves into. When the devil comes and says, "Urgency, you got to do it now." You respond with now. I'll wait. I'll wait. Why am I waiting? because I know that something better is coming in the future.

Are y'all with me? The reason we wait on the Lord is because we know that what is in the future is better than anything Satan can offer in the present. When he comes with the sense of fear, remember this verse, there is no fear in love. 1 John 4:18, there is no fear in love, but perfect love cast out fear because fear has torment. He that fearth is not made perfect in love. So when the devil comes with a sense of urgency, you say, "Nah, I'm not in a rush. I'll wait." When the devil comes with a sense of fear, man, you're going to miss out.

Hey, perfect love. Perfect love for God. Perfect love for his word cast out that fear that you're going to miss out on something in the present. Are y'all with me? Psalm 84:11. Psalm 84:11. The Lord, for the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. So you got to know when the devil says, "Hey, aren't you afraid of missing out? Missing out on this party? Missing out on this drug? Missing out on this thing? Missing out on this girl?

Missing out on this guy?" Remember this. The Bible says, "No good thing will God withhold, especially for those that wait on him." When the devil says, "Man, look how pleasant this is." Imagine how pleasant this will be if you just do this thing right now. Always remember this text, y'all. 1 Corinthians chapter 2:9. When the devil tries to get your eyes to focus on the pleasure of this world, remember this. As it is written, "Eye has not seen nor ear heard, neither has entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him."

Are y'all with me? Remember that. Let me show you how this same verse, so Paul is quoting from the Old Testament in this verse. But let me show you how the Old Testament verse says it. Let's go. Isaiah 64:4. For since the beginning of the world, men have not heard, nor perceived by ear, neither hast the eyes seen, oh God, beside thee, what he has prepared for them that waitth for him. Ah, do y'all catch this? The devil is saying now, now, now. You got to have this now. But they that wait upon the Lord.

They that wait upon the Lord, y'all. Temperance. They that wait upon the Lord. When the devil comes and says, "Hey, it's urgent. Hey, aren't you afraid you're gonna miss out? Hey, uh uh what about the pleasure? And then when he comes with that last one, self-preservation, you will be happy if you do this. Always remember, beloved, always remember James 5:11, which says this, "Behold, we count them happy which endure." You have heard of the patience of the of Jo of patience of Job and have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy.

Listen to me, y'all. happy. True happiness comes to those that endure. True happiness comes to those that wait upon the Lord. We can see, listen y'all, we can see it again. When the devil comes back and tempts Jesus the third time, Matthew 4:9, I want you to note what the Bible says. It says again the devil took him up into a exceeding high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them and said unto him all these things will I give you if you will fall down and worship me.

Now do y'all see what what the devil's doing here? Let me show you what the devil's doing here. He's offering Jesus the world and he's offering him the world now. Do y'all catch that? He's offering Jesus the world. Now, Jesus has a picture of the world in this way. Notice with me, Revelation 21:1, where the Bible says, "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea." H the devil was offering Jesus the world now a ruined world.

A world that is going to pass away and perish. Satan was like, "Hey, you can take this now." Jesus said, "Nah, I'm waiting for the long-term investment. I'm going to get this world in a state. So Jesus was locked on the future version while the devil was trying to get him to focus on the present version. Are y'all understanding what I'm saying? So the devil will come to you and he will try to offer you the world now as it is the glories of the world now. But beloved like Jesus we ought to say no I'll wait I'll wait because something better is coming.

Temperance then is the refusal to do business with Satan. The refusal to trade the future blessings which have already been paid for to buy death y'all. It is the refusal to do business with Satan. Temper. Temp temperance is long-term investing while inmperance is splurging. I want to splurge now. Let me get everything I can now. Let me live for the now. And you end up living in tempmperately. You end up living life intemperately. you end up doing all that you do inately because you're living for the now instead of living for the future.

But Paul says, Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4:17, "For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, works for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight and glory." Beloved, that which is eternal far exceeds what the devil has to offer to Now, we can say it this way. Temperance is not merely a moral practice, but it is a prophetic act of faith. It's you denying the present because you believe in the future. Y'all good? It is denying present sinful pleasure pleasure because you believe in the promises that God has made for your The Christian has invested in in a property that is worth millions.

No, no, that is worth billions. No, no, no, no, no. The Christian has invested in a future property that is worth trillions and tr No, no, no, no. The Christian has invested in a future property, land, real estate. that you cannot put a number on the value of it. Why in the world would we trade down? Why in the world would we would we trade that which is eternal for that which is temporary? Temperance is deferring sinful gratification because you believe in the compound glory of God. Are y'all catching this?

Now remember guys, this is just side A of the of the question of temperance. But I want you to see beloved that temperance inmperence is a trait. Intemperance is says this is all there is. You only live once. And you can say that while claiming to be a Christian. Temperance is refusing to sell what you have. It's refusing to do what Esau did. Are y'all with me? Let's look at Daniel. Let's talk about Daniel for a moment. So, so you remember that in the book of Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they refused to bow down to the image that is that is set up them.

Now, watch this, y'all. Is there going to be an end time image according to the book of Revelation? Yes, there is. Yes, there is. And I want you to note the actions. I want you to note the actions of the three Hebrews. Number one, is there a sense of urgency? Bow down now. If you don't bow down now, something bad is going to happen to you. There's a sense of urgency. There's a sense of fear, a fiery furnace. There's even a sense of pleasure because the command is not just to bow down. The command is to bow down and worship.

Enjoy this. Enjoy the experience. I don't want you to just bow down. I want you to bow and worship. Be into it. Feel it. It's a good thing. And then self-preservation. If you don't do this, you're going to die. If you don't do this, you're going to die. And so what is their response in their the response to the sense of urgency? Bow down now to my kingdom. They're like, "No, we've seen the future kingdom. We are the ones that told you that there's a stone coming that is cut out without hands. Why would we bow to you?"

No, no, no, no, no. We're not bowing to your kingdom now. There's a kingdom that we will bow to in the future. So, no thanks. We don't want to do business with Babylon. We're we're not tra we're not doing we're not doing this. We're not gonna we're not interacting. We're not trading our future for this present threat. What about the fear the fiery furnace? Remember what they said? These three Hebrews said, "Our God is able to deliver us and if he doesn't, we're still not bowing down." The devil couldn't get them on urgency.

The devil couldn't get them on fear. What about pleasure? Yeah, I'm telling you, man. Worship the image. It'll be good for you. It will feel good. And you know what they said? No, no, no. You don't understand. Eye has not seen nor has ear heard the things which God has prepared for them that love him. Beloved, listen to me. everything that they that they that was going on in within them to withstand trading with Satan. Even down to number four, self-preservation. Self-preservation. They love not their lives until the death.

They were willing to give up their lives. Beloved, if we want to be temperate in all things, if we want to have that fruit of temperance, you cannot do business with devil. You cannot do business with Babylon. All right. So, yes, Gigi, I'm sorry. I'm not allowed to buy or sell. That's what And that's what temperance is. Temperance is sorry. Can't give up my birthright for this thing. Can't give up my birthright for that thing. Not allowed to buy and sell. I'm coming back to that. We're coming back to that.

Y'all good? Okay. Part B. Part B. Temperate in righteousness. So remember we said there are two sides of this questions of temp of this question of temperance. Number one, there is intemperance in sin, but there is also temperance in righteousness. Now, temperance in righteousness may initially sound to you like a good thing. How many of you would like to be temperate in righteousness? You probably know not to raise your hand right now because of what I just said. But temperance in righteousness, beloved, let me just break it down for you.

Come on. Sidebe side. Let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen. We're going to go to the parable found in Matthew 25, beginning with verse one. The Bible says, "Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto 10 virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.

And at midnight there was a cry made, "Behold, the bridegroom cometh. Go ye out to meet him." Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps. But the um and the foolish said unto the wise, "Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out." The wise answered, saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for us and you. Go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves. um verse 10. And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came, and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut.

Afterward also the other virgins came, saying, Lord, open up to us. But he answered and said unto them, verily I say unto you, I know you not. Now, let me ask you a question, y'all. What did the five foolish virgins not have? They brought no what? No oil. They brought no oil. I got to tell you this. Just just don't don't mind me. I'm I'm about to give you another sermon that I'm going to be preaching at some point. I was in my class teaching my students yesterday at Oakwood Academy and we were looking at the parable of the 10 virgins and then one of my students asked me, "So the um this parable is about virgin oil, right?"

And I looked at him for a second and it just took me totally back. I was like, "No, no, no, no, no. This parable is about 10 virgins who had oil." And then I started laughing and I was like, "But you know what though?" I said, "That's really good, sir." I said, "You may not realize it, but you just gave me a sermon idea because virgin oil is oil that has impurities in it. Extra virgin oil is oil that has no impurities in it." And I began to think to myself, man, the five wise virgins had extra virgin oil.

I'd like that. I I told him, I said, "Guys, don't be surprised if I preach a sermon on extra virgin oil versus virgin oil with this parable of the 10 virgins." Anyway, I digress. I just thought about that as we're reading this. So, why did the five wise virgins or foolish virgins, what happened with them? Why did they not bring oil? Let me tell you why. Listen virgins were thinking not of the future but of the short term. Y'all put up one in the chat if you understand the point that I just temperate.

They were conservative when it came to the oil. Do y'all understand what I just said? They were temperate in purchasing oil. It's like they wanted to save money. So, so I think Jesus is coming really, really, really soon. I'm going to go ahead and prepare for the what I think will happen very soon. I'm not thinking long term. I don't want to think long term. I hope Jesus comes soon. See, we got many Adventists who hope Jesus comes soon. And it's a good thing to hope Jesus comes soon. It's a good thing to hope Jesus comes soon.

But beloved, there's a problem. There's a problem with these foolish virgins because they only bought enough for what they thought would take them to the coming of Jesus. Let me say it this way. They only wanted just enough. They were temperate in their purchase. They were conservative in their purchase. Beloved, not only is it wrong to be intemperate with sin, it is also wrong to be temperate with righteousness. Are y'all catching me? The five wise virgins sought an abundance of oil. The five foolish said, "Listen, just give me enough to make it.

Just give me enough to get through. Just give me enough to make it to the gates. It's what we might call risk aversion. So risk aversion would be the tendency to avoid overinvestment in in the spiritual preparation due to the fear that sacrifice may not be necessary or worth it. They had a minimal investment strategy. Again, the same issue with with in temperance and sin is I'm only concerned with the now. That same spirit is carried over in the in the in the realm of righteousness to where hey, listen, just give me enough righteousness to make it to the gates of heaven.

Just give me enough. I don't want the abundance. So, here's what this means, right? The five wise had lamps. I'm sorry. The five foolish had lamps, but they didn't have oil. They weren't concerned about oil. Now, remember this, beloved. What is oil? Oil is symbolic of the Holy Spirit. And what is the what do we just see is the Holy Spirit. Oh, the Holy Spirit the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Is treating people with respect.

It's treating people right. It's looking after the oppressed. So watch this. The five foolish virgins knew all about prophecy. They got the light. Yeah, we get it. We understand. But like caring about people Come on, man. Get out of here with that woke stuff. You're caring about the oppress. Come on, man. We don't have time to care about the oppressed. Preach the present truth. Preach the straight truth. Love people. Ah, don't worry about that. just give us enough for what we think is necessary to make it to the kingdom of heaven.

So, we don't care so much about the oil. We don't care so much about how we treat people. We don't care so much about loving your neighbor. We don't care so much about about helping the the the uh the oppressed. We don't care so much about that feely feely stuff. No. Third angel's message, national Sunday law. Yes. Are you ready for the coming of Jesus? And while we have while we have the the lamp that is burning, there is no love, there is no joy, there is no peace, there is no longsuffering, there is no gentleness.

The five foolish virgins know present truth. The five foolish virgins have present truth, but they do not have love. They do not have mercy. They could care less. H. And what that ends up being, beloved, is it is the same being temperate in righteousness. Get what I'm saying, y'all? Being conservative, you know, I want to conserve. Oh, you know, we don't need just just give me enough to make it being t we should seek an abundance in righteousness. The five wise virgins had an abundance oil. They had an overflow of oil.

That's what we need to be praying for. Give me an So, so, so yes, it is possible to be preaching what you consider present truth. You got the lamp, but you literally have no that? You were temperate when it came to the spirit. You were temperate. I you got to listen carefully to what I'm saying because it's easy to get this confused. What do you mean temporary? We should be listen to what I'm saying. Y'all let me exchange the word for being conservative. You were conservative when it came to the Holy Spirit.

You were conservative when it came to the oil. You were conservative when you came to love. Oh, but you are surely abundant in sin. You are surely abundant in righteousness. you are surely doing abundant business with the devil, but when it came to loving others, uh, when it came to dealing with the poor, listen y'all, somebody I I'm, you know, I'm not calling any names, but somebody told me the other day that they they knew I was getting off track when they saw me do they saw me do a meeting about trying to help inner city people.

I was stunned. They knew I had begun to go off track. I'm not the same old Pastor Myers. They knew I had begun to go off track when I started talking about helping inner cities, finding ways that the church can help people in the inner cities. How do you respond to that? How do So, so the bridegroom delays his coming and what ends up happening is that delay, that delay exposes the lack of oil in the five foolish virgins. Did y'all catch that? The delay of the coming of Christ exposes the lack of oil in the five foolish virgins.

They didn't want abundancy. They only wanted sufficiency. It wasn't that they were rebelling against God. It was just that they were they were exercising risk aversion. They wanted faith in the minimum, not faith that overflows. Give me just enough to be ready for the coming of Jesus. Which means I am really only concerned about myself, not about anybody else. Temperance then, beloved, is not just the restraint of sin, but the discipline to invest beyond what seems necessary. Shall I say that again?

Do I need to repeat that again? Temperance then is not just the restraint of sin but it is the discipline to invest beyond what seems necessary. It is a mentality of overflow versus a mentality of sufficiency. You see, prophetic delay exposes the shallow investor. Let me say it again, y'all. Prophetic delay exposes the shallow investor. They don't want to put all in. So, they are rest? Do y'all need a break? Do y'all need some time to to let this saturate your mind? All right, you got your time right there.

We're about to move on. Let's let's we're about to get ready. Y'all get ready. Listen. The calculate enough. What they thought was enough was based on prophecy, was based on timing. Hey, we think that he's coming in this time and we've got just enough oil for this time. So, that should be good enough. the wise calculated enough by trust. In other words, we're not sure how long he's going to take, but we're going to be ready and we're going to be found doing. The five foolish virgins were preoccupied with the light, not realizing that they didn't have the oil.

They were occupied with prophecy, with understanding, but not showing love, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. So that, beloved, even in the time of trouble, when the time of trouble hits and they come up to that moment and realize that, yeah, they understand prophecy, but whoa, their love is being severely tested and their joy and their peace. They come up to the time of trouble realizing that they are not sealed. Truth an intellectual knowledge of truth is not what seals you. Something was wrong with their eyes.

You ask somebody, "Man, why would you make a trade like that? You weren't seeing right. Something was wrong with your eyes. And you want to know what was wrong with your eyes? You lacked oil. You lacked oil. Look at what the Bible says in Revelation 3:18. I counsel thee to buy me gold tried in the fire that thou mayest be rich and white raignment that thou mayest be clothed and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear and anoint thine eyes with eyes that you may see. That you may see. When we anoint our eyes with eyes, we are able to see a good deal versus a bad deal.

A good deal allows you A good deal allows you to see, man, trade up. Trade up. Trade up. Hey, I got this sin in my life and I can trade it up for what God has in store for me for the future. Let me trade up. Bad eyes will lead you to trade down. Oh man. Yeah, look at that thing. Oh, you know what? Let me trade down. Not only would I would it cause you to trade down, but it will also cause you to be conservative in your love for God. Conservative in your love for others. And you may not even realize that you're being conservative in your love.

You just think I am all about present truth. You know what? It is crazy to me right now. It is crazy to me right now how the devil has led Christians to think that kindness is some kind of political position to be laughed at and mocked at. It is crazy to me how Christians, not all Christians, but so many Christians today will actually mock Isaiah 58, helping the needy, helping the oppressed. Oh, and yet here we are. Here we are. Come on, y'all. Check this out. The five wise virgins have oil. But I need y'all to see this.

Come with me to second 2 Kings 4:2 and 3. We're building on this oil thing for We're still building on this temperate in righteousness thing. Notice with me 2 Kings 4:2. And Elijah said unto her, this woman, this widow, what shall I do for thee? Tell me, what hast thou in thy house? And she said, thy handmmaid has not anything in thy house save a pot of oil. Then he said, Go, borrow thee vessels abroad. of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels, borrow not a few. And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee, and thou thy sons, thou thy sons shall pour out all into the vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full.

So she went from him, shut the door upon her and her and her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out. Watch this, y'all. And it came to pass when the vessels were full, that she said unto her son, "Bring me yet another vessel." And he said, "There is not another vessel." And the oil was stayed. Now watch this. Then she came and told the man of God, and he said, "Go sell the oil, pay the debt, and live thou and thy children off of the rest." Come on, The five wise virgins have they have overflowing o they have brought ample oil.

In this story with Elijah the woman has overflowing oil. Why does she have overflowing oil? Because she has been pouring out into other vessels. In fact, in fact, watch this. We're talking about investment. Watch this. Uh uh Elisha says to her, "Take the oil and go and pay your debt." If this is a if this is a lesson to us, we need to understand that the reason God gives us oil is to pay our debts. Debts? Pastor, what are you talking about? What debts? Oh, let me show you. If in case you didn't know, let me show you.

Come on, y'all. Romans 13:8, the Bible says, "Oh, no man anything but to love one another, for he that loveth another has fulfilled the law." Let me ask you a question. Do you debts? Yes or no? Yes or no? Do you have debts according to the Bible? Yes, you have debts. I have debts. And what are those debts? To love. To love. Now, if God is giving us oil to pay our debts, but we're not paying our debts, is God going to continue giving us If God is giving us oil, if the reason God has given us oil is so that we can pay our debts, but we are not paying our debts, we are not pouring into others.

We are not loving others. Then is he going to continue to give us oil? I can tell you this beloved, the five foolish virgins, they had no oil because they were not interested in investing in oil. All they wanted was light. All they wanted was intellectual knowledge of the truth. They didn't care about fulfilling the debt to love your neighbor. They didn't care about neighbor. All they wanted. And this beloved, listen to me, is temperate in righteousness. Hey, you know what? Yeah. I'm not out there killing people.

I'm not out there lying and stealing. No. I don't know. I don't do those things. But guess what? Guess what you're not doing? When did we see you and not visit you in prison? When did we see you and not feed you? When do we see you and not give you a drink of water? You see, beloved, when you when you fa in failing to pay your debts, God can't he's not going to continue giving you the oil. You're not interested in long-term investments. That's what the oil is for. The oil is about long-term investment.

interested. You're being temperate where you should not be. You're being conservative where you should not be. So, if you're not pouring out into others, God stops pouring out into you. Now, come on, y'all. We're almost there. We're all listen just come. Just just just let's go. Let's go. Check this out, y'all. Luke 6:38. Give and it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over. That's the promise. It's right there. That's the increase. Give and it shall be given to you.

Pour out, and I'm going to pour out into you. pay your debts and I'm gonna keep I'm gonna keep financially sustaining you because beloved, check this out. The cash flow of heaven is oil. The currency of heaven is oil. The currency of Babylon is sin. Did y'all follow that? The currency of heaven is oil. The currency of Babylon is sin. It is urgency, fear, self-preservation, pleasure. Watch this. In Revelation 14:6, the Bible says, "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, fear God, and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come, and worship him that made the heavens and the earth, the fountains of waters, or the sea and the fountains of waters."

So, is it fair for us to say that heaven is interested in getting the oil out to the world? If heaven is interested in getting the oil out to the world, then we might say that heaven has an economic system. Heaven's economy is based on oil and and heaven wants people to do business with heaven, trade with heaven, trade agreements. Don't fear, you guys. Don't fear. Don't fear. Don't fear. Don't think about anything else you might be thinking about right now. All right? Just focus on the me. Heaven is interested in making trade agreements with us.

So, heaven has an e an an economic system. Heaven has a h has a currency and that currency is the oil. You're rich if you got a lot of oil. If you have oil, you're a billionaire, a spiritual billionaire. Okay? So, heaven has an economic system. But notice the next verse. Revelation 148. There follow another angel saying Babylon has fallen that great city because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. Babylon has an economic system as well. In fact, in fact, if you look at Revelation 18 verse 11, notice what it says.

And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her, for no man buyth her merchandise anymore. the merchandise of gold and silver and precious stones and of pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet, all th and all fine and wood and all manner of vessels of ivory and all manner of vessels of most precious wood and of brass and iron and marble. These are all the things of Babylon and the slaves and souls of men. So watch this. Babylon also has an economic system and that economic system is based on urgency.

It's based on fear. It's based on sin. That's Babylon's economic system. Meaning then, beloved, that in the time of trouble, the ultimate battle is going to be the economic system of Babylon versus the e the economic system heaven. And the question will be, whose economy are you buying into? Because what I want you to understand, beloved, is that every time we do business with Satan, we're supporting Babylon. Every time we are intemperate with sin or temperate with righteousness, we are doing business with Babylon.

Y'all put a five in the chat. Put a five in the chat if you catch that bomb. that was just laid out. When I am conservative in my investments in righteousness, when I am liberal in my sin, I am doing business with Babylon. I am I'm supporting Babylon's economy. Babylon's economy is built on sin. Every time that I sin, every time that I that I'm in tempmperate, every time that I'm not loving, every time that I'm not forgiving, I am building up the community of Babylon. Much like the Egyptians or the Egyptians used Israel, the Israelites to build up Egypt, right?

They were slaves in Egypt. will build and build with straw and brick. And so every time that I do these things, I'm building up the economy of Babylon. So then, watch this you guys. Temperance is the declaration that I will not support Babylon's economy. I only do business with heaven. In fact, temperance is a blackout, if will, on doing business with Babylon. It's a protest. Temperance is an economic protest against Babylon. Y'all put a nine in the chat if y'all caught that bomb just now. This is why the Bible says, listen y'all, here is the patience and the faith of the saints.

Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. What is the patience of the saints? It is the temperance power. It is temperance powered endurance. The patience of the saints says I will wait. I'm not going to purchase Babylon's goods. I will wait. I am boycotting. I am boycotting. Now, now, now we're about to bring this home, y'all. Because now you can begin to see something really amazing. Did you know that both the mark of the beast and the seal of God both deal with economy, economic systems?

Watch this, you guys. In Revelation 13:16-1 17, the Bible says, "And he caused all both small and great, rich and poor, pre free and bond to receive a mark in their forehead or in their their for in their right hand or in their foreheads, that no man might buy or sell save he that had the mark of the name or the the name of the beast or the number of his name." So watch this. in Babylon's system. If you don't support her system, you cannot buy or sell. You won't do business with us. We're going to boycott anyone who supports the economy heaven.

Now, why is that significant? Because heaven, beloved, has its own sign or symbol of boycotting the things of this world. What is that thing? It it is the opposite of the mark of the beast. And we understand that that thing that is the opposite of the mark of the beast is the 7th day Sabbath. And here's what's interesting about this, beloved. When you go to Exodus 20:8-10, notice that it says this. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Sixth day shalt thy labor and do all thy work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God.

In it thou shalt not do any work. Stop for a moment. Sabbath, which is the symbol of God, the symbol of heaven, says, "Hey, in the heavenly economy, in the heavenly economy, the Sabbath h the The Sabbath is the economic boycott of the system of Babylon. The mark is proof that you've bought into Babylon. The Sabbath is proof that you're operating on the kingdom of heaven's economy. Watch this. Look at the screen. At the end of time, there are two economies. There's the beast economy and there's the lamb's economy.

The beast economy is based on urgency. You got to buy now to survive. You got to surv if you want to if you want to survive, you've got to buy and sell. It's urgent. The lamb's economy is delayed. We're going to wait. We're trust the beast economy. It's now or never. The lamb's economy, not yet, but it's coming soon. The beast economy invests in this world. The lamb's economy invests in the world to come. The beast uh economy external conformity. The lamb's uh economy internal conviction. The mark is the ID of the beast economy.

The seal is the idea of the lamb's economy. The Sabbath says, "I will not buy. I will not buy." Come on. Uh, you got We have Let's Let's come off the screen because I don't want you to see this next text yet. The Sabbath, beloved, the Sabbath is the sign. The Sabbath is the sign that says I belong to God's economy. Now, I need y'all to check this out because you're about to hear something about the Sabbath that you may have never thought about before. The Sabbath is God training us to wait on him.

Did you hear what I just Temperance is refusing the urgency of now and saying, "I'mma wait on the Lord." So when we observe the Sabbath, it's God literally teaching us for 24 hours how to wait on him, how to be temperate. Sit still. Don't buy. I'm training you to learn not to buy or sell. I'm training you to practice denying buying or selling. Why? Because there's a time coming in which you will be forced to buy and sell. And I want you to be like, "Oh, I used to I do that every seven day. Every seventh day, not buying and selling."

So in this sense then it is almost as if on the Sabbath God is pouring out for us the oil. It's like a 24-hour period of God filling us with the oil, filling us with love, joy, peace, faith, meekness, and temperance. It is a 20 It is like a gas station that we pull up and we got to stay there for 24 hours while God fills us with oil. Now, why is that significant, beloved? Because, listen to me, it is when it is God doesn't expect us to use oil before he's filled us up it. Yeah. That's why that's why when God creates Adam and Eve on the sixth day, he doesn't create them on the first day and then they got to go six days working and then the He created them on the sixth day, which means that their first full day is being filled God.

Their first full day is the Sabbath. God fills them up and then he says, "Now go use what I've given you." So, so, so God is pouring into us his spirit on that day, the blade, the day he is blessed and sanctified with himself. And when I say with himself, I mean the one who is love, joy, peace, longs, serving, gentleness, goodness, faith, me is temperance. And now he says, "Go use the oil that I have given you." Now, if you didn't receive oil, that's a bad sign because what it says is you only came for light.

You didn't come to go pay your debts. You didn't come to go You didn't come this Sabbath to go pay your debts. You just came to get some light. You just came to get some gossip. Maybe you just came to get some some present truth. But you didn't you didn't come to get filled with the oil. Because if you came to get filled with the oil, it would have meant that the week before you had poured out all the oil I gave you into others. And the reason you're coming back this Sabbath is because you're coming back because you're like, "God, I used up all my oil, so I need more.

I got more debts to pay. I got more people to help. I got more people to to minister to. So, give me more oil. But if God is like, "Well, what'd you do with the oil I gave you last Sabbath?" "Uh, well, you know, I was working. I was busy, but I'm here for more." You're not here for more oil. You're here for light. H the reason why many of us don't get filled is because we're not paying our debts. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We are not paying our debts. You guys, God is asking, "What did you do with the oil that I gave you?

What did you do with the oil that I gave you?" So, check this out. We're almost there. I promise you, we're almost there. Listen to me. Sabbathke keepers, seventh day keepers. If you're keeping the Sabbath, but you're doing business with Babylon, you're not really keeping the If you are building up Babylon during week, you're being inmperate with sin and you're being temperate in righteousness. You're being conservative in you're not loving. You're not you're not experiencing the overflowing abundance of the Holy Spirit so that you can pay your debts.

then you are supporting Babylon. And beloved, if you are supporting Babylon, you cannot be keeping the Sabbath. You remember how the God had to deliver the Israelites out of Egypt in order for them to keep the Sabbath. They couldn't keep the Sabbath while supporting Egypt. While they were building Pharaoh's kingdom, they had to come out of Egypt in order to keep the Sabbath. So what I'm saying is if you are still building for Pharaoh, if you are still building for Babylon, beloved, what is happening is whatever you're you might be in church on Saturday, but you're not actually part of the boycott.

Because what happens, beloved, in the boycott is six days you're laboring. Six days you're laboring. Meaning six days you're pouring oil out. Six days you're pouring out love, peace, longsuffering, joy. You're pouring out the fruit of the spirit. Six days you are working the works of God. Six days you are working. And on the seventh day you come back and you say, "Man, woo, what a boycott. I've been boycotting Babylon all week. Boy, it is beautiful." You know, you tell somebody, "Hey, we're green.

We're we're going to boycott this company." And then you walk by and you see that person in the company. Wait, I I thought you were I thought you were boycotting. Well, you know, it was emergency. I had to buy this. I had to get this thing. In temperance, I was not able to help myself. in temperance. God says, "Listen, the Sabbath is an economic boycott against the system of Babylon." Which means I am not supporting Babylon with my time, with my body. I am not supporting Babylon in anything. So part of supporting Babylon is anger.

Part of supporting Babylon is unforgiveness. Part of supporting Babylon economically is is is is is uh uh you fill in the blank. It's being unmerciful. It's ignoring the plight of other people. All of that is building up Pharaoh's kingdom. That's the economy of Babylon. You cannot keep the Sabbath while supporting the economy of Babylon. You cannot keep the Sabbath while hating your brother and sister because in hating your brother or sister, you are supporting the econ the e the economy of Babylon.

So what I want you to understand, beloved, is that the Sabbath I want you to see the Sabbath as an economic boycott, a blackout. All right. All right. Now, I know I'm preaching longer than usual, y'all. I think I'm preaching longer than usual. I don't know how long I've been on here, but I got to share this. We got to look at one more thing. We got to look at one more thing. Come on. I want you to know with me. Exodus chapter 32, verse one. We're about to bring it home, y'all. Let me just stop saying that, y'all.

I I repent for saying we're almost done. And we're Let me just stop saying that because I'm worried about y'all. Like, if you need to log off, log off. That's all right. Let I apologize. I repent for telling you that we were almost done. I'm just not gonna say anything. I will just preach and when I'm done, I'm done. Check this out. So, in Exodus 32:1, when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, they gathered to they gathered themselves together unto Aaron and said, "Make us gods."

All right, are y'all ready for this? Remember what we said about inmperence. Intemperence cannot handle delay. Intemperance says now. Now, now that's what in tempmperance is. It is now for sin and later for righteousness. In a funny now for sin, forget about right. In tempmperance cannot deal with delay. So in this story in Exodus 32, Moses goes up the mountain. He's there for 40 days and the children of Israel because they are being in tempmperate meaning they could not handle the delay. They wanted something now.

And what happened? They they went onto Aaron and they said, "Make us a golden calf. make us a golden calf. They panicked because the timeline for Moses to return, for Jesus to return, the timeline was longer than they expected. And so, as a result, they they set up an image to a beast. inmperance, they couldn't handle the delay. Satan got into their ear. We got to do something now. Jesus isn't coming back. I mean, Moses isn't coming back. So, what are we going to do? We got to build an image to a beast.

So, watch this. Because Jesus isn't coming back now. Because Jesus isn't making things better in our society. Because Jesus isn't fixing the abortion problem. Because Jesus isn't fixing the homosexual problem. Because Jesus isn't fixing the crime problem. Because Jesus isn't fixing the you fill in the blank problem. We are going to build us an image. These be thy gods. this? The people got in tempmperate. Now, while they were being in temperate, guess what? There was one tribe who was like, "Nah, we'll wait."

Yes. Y'all remember, right, the Levites, they said, "Nah, we" The Levites exercised temperance while all the other Israelites, all the other Christians were like, "Nah, we going to build, we got to handle this situation." By the way, what did they say after they built the golden calf? They said, "Tomorrow is a feast unto the Lord." So, they dedicated apostasy to the Lord. It was in the name of the Lord. They weren't like, "Hey, let's be wicked." They just said, "Hey, he's not returning. He's not handling his business.

He's not handling uh our concerns. So, we're going to go ahead and set up our own God. We're going to go ahead and set up our own image. We're going to set up an image to the beast." Why? Because we have to handle these bad things that are happening in our society. If if he doesn't do it, somebody's got to do it. We can't wait. If we wait any longer, we'll all be destroyed. will be killed. They'll take over. So, we've got to act and we've got to act now. And beloved, what I'm what I'm telling you, beloved, is that it is in temperance that leads to the building of the image.

In fact, Aaron, who was priest, succumbed to the demands of the people. It was a popular demand. Look at the screen. Moses is delayed in Exodus 32. Under Christian nationalism, Jesus isn't fixing this nation fast enough. So, they build an idol in Exodus 32. The Christian nationalists want to build a visible kingdom. Apostate Christianity wants to build an invisible kingdom now. They claim it was a feast to the Lord. Apostate Protestantism is doing this in Jesus name. It was driven by fear, a sense of urgency.

And beloved, apostate Christianity has instilled so much fear in Christians today. If we don't do something, if we don't do something, they're going to take over the world. And so we better act now. What did this result in? It resulted in false worship in Exodus 32. What does it result in at the end of time? It results in false worship. This delayed their entry into the promised land. Just as apostate Protestantism will turn people away because of the apostasy from the promised land. Do you see why it is so important to exercise temperance?

To not be rushed into thinking what you're doing is right, to understand the powerful message. As Mark just said in the chat, wait on the trouble, every fruit of the spirit is going to be tested. your love, your joy, your peace, your longsuffering, your gentleness, your goodness, your faith, your meekness, your Could it be that the Sabbath is the day in which God especially pours out his spirit, expecting us expecting us to go pour it out to others? And could it be that if if we haven't been doing that, if as a people we've been so focused on truth, on the on the oil.

Could it be possible that we'll find ourselves at that time supporting Babylon's economic system, not even realizing that we were supporting Babylon's economic system? Grieve not the spirit of God whereby you are sealed unto the day of redemption. Grieve not that spirit. Our prayer church ought to be Lord help me to reflect your character. Help me to be so filled overflowing with your oil that this upcoming week I will demonstrate the evidence that I've been filled with oil. Temperance, beloved, is the evidence of what God has done for me in my special time with him.

He's poured himself out into me and now I'm going out paying my debts. How many of you would like to go pay your debts? Put a one in the chat if you would like to go pay your debts because if you if you're ready to pay debts, let me tell you, God is ready to provide you the funding. If you're like, "Lord, I got debts to pay this week." He's like, "Debts? I got you. But don't don't lie to the Lord. Don't be like, "Lord, give me oil, then you ain't pay your debts." He will He will back you. He will grant He will He will fund your cause, y'all.

So, if you're like, "Pastor, okay, how do I do this?" I'm simply saying this. Listen. Decide that this week you're going to pay debts. Decide it. And beloved, I believe that God will pour his spirit into you today. It's his Sabbath. He said, "I want you to honor my day. I want you to remember me." He will fill you today. And as he fills you, you go out like that woman and say, "All right, paying my debts." and you come back next time and be like, "Lord, let me tell you how many debts I've paid this week," the Lord be like, "What?

Let me give you us to wait, to trust, and to not do business with Satan, to not do business with Babylon. So Lord, we're asking one thing today, and that is that you would fill us, Lord. That you would fill us so that we can go out and pay our debts this week, Lord. that we might come back with testimonies of the debts we've paid. Only those that pay their debts will have enough to live off the rest. That's what the story said. She paid her debts and lived off the rest. Lord, help us to understand that in order to have enough to live off the rest, we've got to pay our debts.

And if we're serious about paying our debts, you will be serious about filling us with oil. Lord, help us never to trade as Esau, as Eve, or as David. Help us never to trade away the oil that you have given us. Fill us Lord and may we boycott the system of Babylon and remember that symbol of boycott the Sabbath. May we remember it is a boycott against against supporting and building up the kingdom of this world. May we stay faithful and true to that divine blackout. Lord, thank you for hearing and answering this prayer because we ask it in Jesus name.

Amen. And amen. I want to thank you all uh for tuning in and um and worshiping with us today. We are going to put the link in the chat to the afterglow. And so I want to invite you to uh to join us and we're going to talk about the Sabbath school. We're going to talk about the the divine service and um you know whatever whatever lessons you pulled from it. Uh in fact, we're going to have a study um on this uh sermon right after this. So if there were insights that you caught as you were listening, please feel free to to join that afterlow.

And uh we look forward to fellowshipping with you there. And may God bless you and keep you and fill you and may you pay those debts is my prayer in Jesus name. Amen. God bless you. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God.

It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.