Welcome back Living Mana Church family. We are so happy that you have continued to worship with us. Thank you for finding uh joining I should say the new link um because we did we this is a new link that you're on and so we are thankful that you were able to make your way here with us for the divine worship service. You know I have to say that Sabbath school was really very exciting to talk about the app. It was amazing to be able to share with many of you what the photo theology um suite is like and how you can learn and go so much deeper into the Bible.

Our special guest helped with that as well, sharing their um things that they loved so much about the app and how it's helping them to grow um in the Bible and to go deeper um into the word of God. And so we are so uh just so thankful for that. And if you missed it, go back and rewatch that or watch it for the first time because it's definitely something that you're going to want uh to know more about um and to be able to share with others um as well. So, please let us know if you're just joining us uh for the first time or you were here and you didn't tell us before where you were viewing from, please let us know where you are watching from.

Put your name in the chat as well so we can say your name because sometimes the handles don't match the name. I want to welcome you personally. So, please put where you're viewing from and if this is your first time, put a one in the chat. We want to tell you all about Living Mana Church. So, again, we're just so thankful that you are here uh with us today and are worshiping with us. Want to welcome Christie from South Carolina. Um it's such a it's so good to see you here Christie on the Sabbath to and you're here with Living Man of Church worshiping with us.

So we know that we have viewing viewers from all around the world and we want to hear from everyone uh who would who is viewing now and we want to say a special welcome to you. It's just a blessing to be here with all of you uh on the Sabbath just to spend time worshiping God, fellowshipping with all of you, praying, studying the Bible. It's a blessing uh just to worship with you again. Want to say welcome to from someone in Oklahoma. Good to have you here at Living Mana Church. I'm so glad that you are here uh with us today.

Uh we have somebody from New Jersey. Welcome. Uh we have from Tennessee. Good to see all of you here. We have um Okay, we have brother Kashif who was just uh on with us as a special guest. He is viewing from the Bronx. Welcome um again to be here with us at Living Mana Church. And we have someone from St. Albins's, New York. It's going up faster. Sorry I missed your name. Welcome. Renee from California. Good to see you here, Renee. Everton from uh Jamaica. Good to see you. Welcome. And happy Sabbath to you.

We have Diane from Fort Worth, Texas. Good to have you here uh with us at Living Mana Church. Such a blessing to have all of you. Just want to let you guys know how you can stay connected to Living Mana Church. Um, the way that you're going to be able to do that is you're going to want to sign up to get text alerts. If you're here in North America, you will be able to get text alerts. And there on your screen tells you how you're able to do that. You just text LMLC. You dial 855207-4107 and text LMC.

And that will automatically sign you up uh to get text alerts from Living Manage Church. You're probably thinking like, why do I want to do that? Because live when you sign up to get text alerts, you're able to get reminders when we're about to go live. Just like we had to create a new link today, you would have gotten information on um your phone to tell you how to do that so you can continue uh to watch. And so all of our programming all throughout the week and um on Sabbath there is a there is a link that goes out and it tells you or an announcement that goes out and it just tells you in 20 minutes we'll be live and uh this is what is happening.

Sometimes there's other information that we want to share. It's just a way to stay connected. But as you know we are an international church. Everyone is not here in America. So if you are international you're going to want to sign up for Mighty Networks. And I always have to amend that statement just a little bit. It's not just for our international viewing audience or members. The Mighty Networks is for everyone. As you heard during the Sabbath school, um if you're wanting to get more information about the photo theology suite, there's a whole section on Mighty Network.

So, you can get that information. Um if you're going to want to learn about our um our our small groups, you're going to want that. Those are on Mighty Network. Our afterglow after the sermon is over uh is on Mighty Networks. That is our virtual church home. So, you're going to want to download Mighty Networks and that um link is in the chat. So, you will be able uh to do that. So, that again is our virtual church home. You're going to get to know people there. Our our leaders for um our small groups, they're all there.

Everything is there. So whether you are international or if you are um here in America, it's all right there. So that is what you're going to want to do and the link for that is in the chat. That's how you stay uh connected. We want to uh also let you know that we have programming for kids, LMOC kids, and that starts on um Saturday morning at well, Saturday morning here in America, or I should say in the central part of America, Central time, 11:30. Um and so they uh start um on Zoom. And then um if you want more information about that, you can text kids to the 855 number to sign your child up um or to a grandchild, a niece or nephew.

Also, if you're out of the country, please email LMC kids at living.urch and the leadership will get back to you so we can get uh the child that you want to be a part of lc kids um to be a part of it. want to remind you guys that we have a there's hangouts. Hangouts is just what it sounds like. Um it is all right. I'm not going to tell you about hangouts yet. I am going to tell you about Pastor Meyer's virtual office hours. If you are wanting to speak to the pastor, you can do that by setting up a virtual office hour appointment and you can just email Patrice at living.live live and she will set that appointment up for you.

Also, um if you're wanting to become a member of Living Mana Church, just like you saw today, we had somebody become a member by profession of faith. And so, that is one way that you can do that. If you feel like you don't need to get rebaptized and you just and you would like to become a member of the Seventh Day Adventist Church, you can do that off of profession of faith or you can transfer. Or if you are a 7th Day Adventist member, you can transfer your membership to Living Man Church. And the third way is that you can get baptized.

You if you want to study more about what Seventh Day Adventists believe from the Bible, you can do that. And if you decide you want to get baptized, you can get baptized and Pastor Meyers will baptize you. All three of those ways of becoming a member, you can you can just send an email to patrice livingmana.live. And so if that's if you're wanting to become a member, those are the three ways that you can do that. So now I want to tell you all about Hangouts. Hangouts um is a it's just just like what it sounds like, hanging out with the Living Mana Church family so we can continue to get to know each other better and a fun relaxed setting.

So want you to check out uh this video that tells you a little bit more about Hangouts. Hey guys, this is your hanger host Ayana sending you love all the way from the lovely island of Trinidad and Tobago. And I want to extend a special invitation to each and every one of you to join us at Hangouts every other Sunday where we break out into groups of 10 and have games, riveting questions, and just some clean Christian fun. So come join us every other Sunday at Hangouts. Feel free to invite a friend and invite another friend as well.

See you there. That's great. And our next hangouts is tomorrow. Uh that's Sunday, February 22nd at 6:30 p.m. Central Standard Time. So, you want to make sure that you join the hangout space on mighty network for for updates so you can always know when uh the hangouts is going to be happening. Loc volunteers, we need you. We need you to volunteer. These are the areas that we are needing help with. LMOC Kids has put out an SOS on children's ministry needs additional volunteers to support our growing group of little ones.

If you have a heart for teaching, serving, or simply helping create a safe, joyful space for our kids, this is a great place for you to plug in. If you're ready to serve and want to learn more, visit the service opportunity section on Mighty Networks. Every hand makes a difference and there's a place prepared for you. Also want to tell you about our digital small groups. They are organized um are or sorry digital small groups are designed to help you grow, connect and find real community from from wherever you are.

They create safe supportive space where you can learn, share and walk through life with others who understand your journey. One of those uh small groups is STAR. Star is a support group created to walk with you through the journey of addiction recovery. Whether you're just beginning or continuing uh the path toward healing, you are not alone. This is a safe uh judgment-free space to share, grow, and rebuild one step at a time. Star meets Thursdays at 7:30 p.m. Central time. And it um it s okay. and um its sessions are open to everyone seeking support, encouragement and real connection.

Come as you are. Hope lives here. So that is STAR. Also want you to know about mental health Monday. That's a program that I uh co-host with Dr. Ricardo White. And we are back. Last week we took a break um where we just paused our our men's uh mental health series but we will be back this Monday continuing that topic. So you do not want to miss uh mental health Mondays. You know women you are invited as well. We want you all to know how to take care of the men in your life their mental health or care for them or just to have information on the things that they go through um so that you can be sensitive to that.

So definitely men please show up. It's about your mental health but women show up as well so you can know how to support the men um in your life. Want to also remind you guys about weight training. Uh weight training is only at LMC. If you've been hearing about Adam Patel's amazing classes for El Moses and you are have caught the buzz about Pastor Meyers weight training, here's the truth. This is one of the most transformative trainings you'll find anywhere and it's available exclusively through LMLC.

The full series is still accessible on our YouTube playlist featuring powerful guest teachers who brought their own depth of fire. That's Adam Patel, Dakota Day, Lwami Richardson, and Calvin Kim. This isn't generic evangelism uh content. This is Elamosi crafted spiritual training designed to teach you how to share your faith faith with others and with clarity. So if you want to check that out, it is the playlist is on our LMOC uh YouTube channel. Also want to tell you guys about Seven Loaves and and Fish Fishers.

Seven Loaves and Fishers of Men. Seven Loaves and Fishers of Men is more than a group. It's a brotherhood. It's more than a men's group, I should say. This men's ministry uh group is led by a team of incredible men who are committed to growing in Christ serving with purpose and strengthening one another through accountability, prayer, and real conversation. Together, uh these brothers are building a space where men can be where I'm sorry, where men can be sharpened, uh supported, and spiritually fed.

Whether it's studying the word, serving the community, or simply showing up for one another, this ministry is dedicated to raising up men and lead with integrity, courage, and compassion. And you can see there where they meet on Tuesdays at 7:30 Central um Standard Time. There's an email there that you can um if you are um not in America, you can send an email there to the leadership and if you're wanting more information and if you um have signed up to get text alerts, you can text men to that 855 number and you can get information there if you're wanting to be a part of the men's ministry.

Also, just want to remind you guys about Alamos Global U. Almost global. This is where we're able to go around the world currently in si I'm sorry I was going to say five seven different languages um of the world and so they take Pastor Meyer's uh sermons and it can actually take anything any content that we produce here at Living Mana Church and it can take that content and turn it into the seven different languages that we currently have available to us. And so I want to show you what that looks like at this time.

Gloria Moes Gloria Gloria Jesus Magnific. glorification. We are just thankful to have that technology to be able to translate and currently as I've said in seven different languages, we want to continue to grow um in the languages that we're able to go into all the world with. And so if you would like to support uh that aspect of Living Mana Church and other aspects of um the church ministry, I just want to share with you how you can continue to give or start giving to support what Living Mana Church is doing.

And you can do that by going to Adventistgiving.org. There you would put in living mana church and a virtual tithe envelope would um would would come would fall down and you can see the envelope categories there. You can give your tithe and your tithe supports the northeastern conference. Living matter church is a member of the northeastern conference. You can see there the local church budget. That is where um those funds stay with Living Mana Church and we're able to uh do all the things that Living Mana Church does which is a lot and it needs uh the support from you financially if you'd like to give and to support our local church budget.

It helps uh to be able to support the employees that we have um part-time that are helping us with Living Managed Church. It help us. It helps us with all the resources that we need to be able uh to do uh live broadcast like this every week with the cameras, computers, the lighting, the technology that we use to be able to produce good quality programming uh that can go into all the world and to witness for Jesus. And so the local church budget uh when you give there that helps to that helps our living mana church again do all the things that it does.

It also helps when you give to the benevolence fund. That helps us to be able to help others who are in need and is requesting help from our church to be able to help them. And there you can go to um adventistgiving.org and just view that tithe envelope to see where you would like to give to be able to support. Now, if you're not wanting to give online, but you would like to send in a check and to be able to give that way, there's the address on your screen that you can use to be able to mail your support into Living Mana Church.

Please just write on a little note what where you would like your funds to go to. What is for tithe? What's for offering? If there is a specific area in Living Man Church that you would like to support, please let us know. We just want to say thank you uh to all of you for supporting Living Mana Church in all the many ways. You show up every week. You pray for Living Mana Church. You share on your social media uh to let people know that inviting them to church. You share the videos. And so we just want to say thank you.

Um it really helps be everything that you're everything that you do by showing up by praying by talking about it with friends and family. that is very helpful in allowing people to know that Living Mana Church is here. Um, and it's here for you and to and to bless you by God's grace. And we just want to say thank you to you again and thank you to God for just giving us this space. And it's almost four years. We're so thankful in April it'll be four years that Living Man Church has been here and we just want to continue to grow in God's grace.

And so I would like to um ask you to bow your heads with me as we pray and just thank God for everything that uh he has done for this church and will continue to do for living mana church. So please bow your heads with me as we pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you for this Sabbath. Lord, thank you for this opportunity to just witness to the whole world about your goodness and how amazing you are, Lord. Lord, I just want to especially thank you for the photo the photo theology suite. It's been a blessing to me.

I know it's been a blessing to so many um who have used it. And I just pray that you will continue uh to just take this app even deeper into the hearts and souls of those who are using it. Lord, let it just spread uh so wide because we all need to go deeper into our Bible study. Lord, we need to take more time uh with that and this app definitely helps us with that. Lord, I want to pray over everyone who is viewing. Lord, I pray over uh their specific needs in the areas that they are needing. Lord, the marriages that are needing help.

Lord, I pray over the I pray over them. those who are going through a health journey right now, Lord, and they are just needing your healing power. Lord, I pray that you will bring healing to them. Lord, I pray for all the family issues and things that people are going through that their personal issues, Lord, just uh give them wisdom and guide them on how to deal with those issues, Lord, that are so sensitive. And Lord, finances, that is a big one for so many um all around the world, Lord. And so I just pray that you will provide the needs for those who are hurting and and just dealing with financial issues at this time.

Lord, I lift up Pastor Meyers to you and just asking that uh the Holy Spirit, the sermon and the message that you have put on his heart that it will be delivered today in such a powerful way that it will touch all of our hearts and that we will leave church today changed people and we will want to share it with the world. Lord, I ask all these things in Jesus name. Amen. God of creation there at the start before the beginning of time with no point of reference. He spoke to the dark and fleshed out the wonder of light.

In the vapor of your breath, the planets fall form. If the stars were made to worship, so will I. I can see your hand in everything you've done. Every burning star a signal fire of grace. If creation sings your praises, so will I. God of your promise. You don't speak in vain. No sinable empty voice. For once you have spoken. All nature and science follow the sound of your voice. a h 100 billion creatures catch your breath. >> Evolving in pursuit of what you say. If it all reveals your nature, so will If the mountains were made to worship, so will I.

For if everything exists to lift you high, so will I. The wind goes where you send it, so will Oh, if the rocks cry out in silence, so will If the song of all our praise is still for shine, then we'll sing again a h 100 billion times. God of salvation. You chased up my heart through all of my failure and pride on a hill. You ced the light of the world abandoned in darkness to die. Where you lost your life so I could find me here. >> If you left the grave behind you, so I can see a heart in everything you've >> Every part design and a work of our call.

If you're glad you chose surrender, so >> I can see your heart 8 billion different ways. Every preious one, the child you die to save. If you gave your life to love them, so What measure could amount to your desire? You're the one who never leave the one behind. >> You're the one who never leave the one Here at Living Mana, we bear each other's burdens. When you need support or prayer, when you're feeling discouraged or alone or anxious, you don't have to face life struggles alone. Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in our time of need.

The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. Amen. Amen. Greetings, Loc family, friends, visitors, saints of the most high God. I am brother Terry. This is my lovely bride Amra. We're celebrating our eighth anniversary, by the way, y'all. And >> yes, we are. >> Thank God for that. But we want to say welcome to you. Welcome to another edition of Living Manners Prayer and Praise Time. You know, it was late on my heart to put a a greeting in the chat earlier that listen, we are experiencing the presence and power of God here in such a very special way.

I know y'all can say amen, saints. See you shouting out in church. Brother Clint, see you in the chat there. Um, who was it that just said, "I need prayer support." Noah, Noah, praying for you. You can get it here. Love and prayer support all the time. Um, I won't be long with you today because we have some really powerful stuff we want to share with you in the praise report department. All right. So, uh, just want to sweep down the whole list, the whole family, everybody. Love y'all. Okay. Won't do a roll call today.

There's one special shout out I do want to do today. Sister Pauline's granddaughter, Micaia, who's turning 11 years old today. Micaia, this is your birthday. >> We love you, young lady. We've been praying for you every day, believe me. And we thank God for you are special. God has a plan for your young, special, precious lives. You keep on holding on and being strong, young lady. And so, we're just celebrating you. Ah, we see the anniversary shout outs in the chat. Thank y'all for wishing us a happy anniversary.

Listen, I think me and me me and Amber met eight years ago. A little over eight years ago. >> Four months. >> Eight years in about five minutes. Look, we met and Nicole, you know that that amazing timeline, right? We met and I think about 20 minutes later we're engaged and about two days later we're married, right? Something like that. No, I'm just kidding. Not that fast. But God >> was pretty fast. God did an amazing thing and it is the hand of God and everything that we have all that we are is ours only because God is so good and amazing.

So last week when pastor Nante was talking about love doing Sabbath school um pastor said instead of worrying about who God has for you get with God and let God make you the person that somebody else needs you to be. Amen. And uh I thank God for keeping me where he kept me for so long working on me. He didn't give up on me. He's not giving up on you. And this is the reward of all those tears and all those prayers and all that labor and God's faithfulness. So, I thank God for you, my love. You uh you are something else.

You're a blessing to me. And so, >> well, I thank God for you. And you know, every time we get into some spirited fellowship, I just remind him I'm 25 years of answer prayer, >> okay? and you only have to deal with me every day until the day you die. >> Had to bring that up, right? So, uh it's beautiful. I thank God for it. Uh it's a blessing. And so, yeah, men out there, uh stay strong, stay faithful, stay true. And what I'm going to tell you, listen, I got to say one more thing and I'm gonna hand it over to Amra.

The photo theology spiritual educational suite. Let me tell you, next level. This software that Professor X has put together is just absolutely amazing. I mean, and I'm talking about our pastor. I call him Professor X because God is doing amazing supernatural things in that mind. And and I thank you uh first lady for being such an incredible support for him and uh being there for him and just such a compliment to that amazing gift and your amazing gift. So y'all just a y'all just a ball of fire together.

So thank God for y'all. Certainly an example to us. But I want to pray about the want us to pray about the photo theology app, right? The users, the members, and as they mentioned this morning, tech support because you know that once a bunch of people start getting on that thing and and and and just all over the place exploring, everybody's got a different profile and a different way they study and using all of those amazing features. I mean, 38 tabs in the home. uh uh tab alone, 38 tabs in the main suite.

And inside of each of those 38 tabs, you see it. Get in there and move around, navigate, see what you got. And um hundreds of features so you can just tailor make your study uh to suit you and the way you think and the way you learn and the way you grow. It is I'm telling you, I don't have any words. So, Professor X, my brother, love you and uh admire you. Thank God. and truly a teacher, truly a vessel that God has used to bring something. I mean, absolutely revolutionary. And so, uh, make the most of it, saints.

Get in there. Get in there. Get in there. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Third angel. He That's Professor X for sure. Y'all know that. So, >> praise my beloved. >> All right. Well, >> before I begin, just a couple announcements. If you have a prayer request or a praise report that you would like to submit, please send an email to pray living mana.urch and we have prayer warriors that will pray over your prayer requests all through the week and then any prayers reports I can share here on the broadcast. We are always looking for new members to join our prayer team.

So if you would like to join this community, it is an amazing one to be a part of. Also, please send an email to pray at living mana.urch. If you need a special ops team, that is a group of people that will be praying throughout the week daily. for detailed prayer for yourself or a loved one, please send an email to spec ops living.urch. If you need a midweek pickme up, please join us every Wednesday for Power Wednesday. That is at 4:30 p.m. Pacific Standard Time, 7:30 Eastern Standard Time. And it is always a great way to connect with other people in the church.

We have devotionals, we have testimonials, and we also have uh just fellowship and prayer. It's awesome. Following that is the power line, and that is live on YouTube every week. That's at 6:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time, 900 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. And that is live prayer, so anyone can put it in the chat and it will be prayed for live. So those are the announcements I have. >> Amen. >> All right. Starting off the praise reports, we have one from Robert E. Plant. The results of my nerve conduction study came back normal.

Though carpal tunnel and cubital for forearm tunnel have not been ruled out. I praise God for this report. >> Amen. Amen. Praise God. Elder Robert, love you. Love you, brother. >> Praise God. from Laura Powell. Thank you so much, saints, for praying for us yesterday. We're praising God for all things while still recovering from bronchitis, pneumonia, and I'm much better now. I was prepping for a Revelation Bible study last night, but when I turned on my computer yesterday morning, Word disappeared along with all my documents that I had prepared for all of the Bible studies, not just last night's.

Our internet was hardly working yesterday, too. and we had to turn it off and back on several times to get it to work, which was intermittent at best. We also had planned to have a guest pastor join us by Zoom. The Lord guided us and what to do as I was just trying everything I knew to do to get word back and my documents and we finally got it. The meeting started with the pastor and went very well. Praise God. Then the internet quit again just after he finished. I was able to transfer internet by using my phone and we were able to finish our Bible study.

Praise God. Isn't that a marvelous answer to prayer? Thank you so much. God is so good. He is getting his message out no matter what. >> Amen. And greetings to you, Tom and Laura. We love you. Laura is the living man of war yet. And and Laura, baby, we call her affectionately. And we love you and we miss you here. Thank you. Keep on letting the Lord use you the way he has been, Sister Laura. >> Amen. from Ramona Baddy. Praise report. Mikuel and Marilyn, my twin grandsons, mom and grandmother are okay.

Marilyn left the hospital a few days ago and Mikuel is being released today. She's breathing on her own now. Thanks to my entire Locosc family for every single prayer. Stana's surgery went well and she's recovering speedily. Thank you all. Prayer changes things. >> From Kimberly. Hallelujah. The debt is paid. Miraculously, I had a refund. The miracle refund was more than enough to pay the debt. God is so good. Jehovah Gyra always takes care of me. Did anybody even have time to say amen before God stepped in?

And a bunch of fire emojis. Look at our God. >> Oh, that was those were my words at the end because I reported her. That was >> Oh, that was you. >> Yeah. From the social chat. Kimberly emailed us in the morning. Then about 2:00 she thanked us for praying for her and then maybe about an hour or two later, God had come through for her. It was like really quickly. So Kimberly, love you and so glad to hear that God's moving in your life that way. That's amazing. >> All right, Olivia Torres, here's her prayer request.

Please pray for my property tax exemption homestead. They have been dragging out the process. I always get the same response. It is pending. The property tax here in Texas is unbelievable. That's what we've heard. Please pray with me that I will get a response from the Hidalgo appraisal district after numerous phone calls. I just sent them an email to follow up as well today. Yes, things are just getting out of hand. Those who are honest in their taxes are the ones who need to go through this. Lord have mercy.

>> And the praise report. I requested a prayer for my property tax homestead exemption. Great is his faithfulness. The Hidalgo appraisal district sent me an email notifying me of the approval. What a burden lifted from my shoulder. This should this could not be possible without your intercessory prayer on my behalf and his divine interventions. Thank you so much. Hallelujah. Amen. Lastly, my autoimmune flare up not only affects my endurance but also my mobility to some extent. Yes, I have a specialist on board.

you name it. I will need to set up to see my cardiologist and pulmonologist if this persists. God is a way of sending signals to my body when it's time. And I know he will give me the discernment when needed. Overall, it is under control and manageable. I just need to slow down and rest, take my medications. Praise God for his unceasing prayers. For your unceasing prayers, blessings to you all. Have a blessed preparation day. And quickly from the chat, Gingerella had a praise report. Gingerella 007, a dear friend struggling with substance abuse for decades has informed us today that she is finally free from the crippling addiction that robbed her dignity and future.

God is good. And lastly, from Gary Benson, happy Sabbath, everyone. Thank you for the shout out last week. Michaela is home from the hospital. >> Amen. Now, we have a special praise report guest. >> Buckle up. >> Buckle up. It is our own church secretary, Patrice Delisser, as she comes on board member. >> Yes. But Patrice has experienced quite the journey and she is coming on to share a pretty amazing praise report. >> Amen. Amen. All right, Patrice, let him use you. There she is. >> There she is.

Hello, Patrice. >> Oh, we can't hear you. >> You're pulling a T. She pulled a Terry. We can't hear you. >> No, >> I'm not muted. >> Oh, there you are. >> There you are. There you are. >> There you are. >> It's not >> uh You're good. >> We have a scene. We hear you now. >> We have a scene in in the uh tech team. It's um it's a software. It's an inside joke. So, >> um I know the tech team, they got it. They got it. They got it. So anyway, happy Sabbath everybody. It is so great to uh to be here. I never thought I would be here to be honest with you.

Um but yet I am. Um I want to give a big special shout out to um two individuals, actually three that are actually part of this testimony. And if Colin if I don't know if it's possible if we can do a side by side the um view let's do that. If not I will continue. Oh boy. Well when brother Terry said uh buckle up that's an understatement for the there's actually a two-part but the first part of it I I cannot share um right now. Um, but at some point I'll be able to share that part because it actually intersects with what I'm about to share with you.

Now, last week on Sunday, um, I have to give you context and give you the background of exactly where this story is about to go. So, currently where I live, it is Thank you, Colin. Thank you so much. Currently where I live um on the property that I live on is three properties. It's the house there's a cottage right behind the house and then about 50 feet a little over 50 feet away is a double garage with an apartment on top of the garage. So there's an apartment there. Cottage behind uh the main house and uh the house is where my family lives.

There is a uh woman that lives right behind us. Literally our cottage, her cottage almost butt butts up against the house. And then as I said between 50 and about 50 a little over 50 feet away is the double garage with the above garage apartment. I have to give you that context and layout because it's it's it is important for what I'm about to share. >> So about five o'clock, a little before five o'clock, my daughter came home from work. One of my daughters came home from from work and she came in the house to tell me that she heard some someone yelling like they were really in pain.

But she came in the house. She said, you know, I don't know where it's coming from and I'm not going to get involved because I don't know where it's coming from. So, she came to the house and shortly after she said that, probably within about 15 minutes or so, she was by the window and said, "Um, there police here with guns and they're pointing towards the double garage." And I proceeded to look out the window to find that what she said was actually true. They were uh trained officers with rifles with scopes and pointing in that direction.

And when I looked out it was three. And as I'm looking at three, then another patrol car pulls up with guns out and loaded and pointed towards that direction. I proceeded to tell everybody, "Go upstairs. Go upstairs now because everybody is essentially on the first floor and whatever is about to happen, bullets don't have a a a specific when when shots are being fired, it's going to go everywhere." >> And so we proceeded to go upstairs and we're looking out and now there more police that are coming.

At some point, the neighbor behind me who's in the cottage, everybody is frantic. My son is about to go downstairs and say, "I'm going to go outside and see and see what's going on." Which I immediately yelled, "You cannot go outside. You in particular can't go outside and I'll just leave that there. You stay up here. I'll go." So, as I'm looking out to see exactly what's happening, but I'm not sure what's going on. I can't even I can't reach my husband because my husband is out of state and my cell phone is downstairs and I can't even get a down go reach for my phone and get to my phone because to be honest with you, I was terrified because if it starts, I don't know what's about to happen.

>> Yeah. So about a couple seconds later, all this is happening in real time, in rapid time. This is not a This is not This is not a movie. This is literally happening in real life. And I'm am petrified. I'm petrified for my kids. I'm petrified for my neighbors. I don't know what's happening. What is going on? So, I finally see my cottage neighbor. She had just pulled up because she was out. She was at work. Her son, who was 18 years old, he was at at her house at the cottage. And when I see her and she's talking to the state police, I now go out and feel a little more comfortable to go out.

And I'm as I'm going out the door, I say to her, "Hey, um I'm not saying names for a reason, just protecting their anonymity." I said, "Hey, what's happening? What's going on?" And she says, "Our neighbor just shot himself. He had shot himself. And somehow the reason why the police there were there and I gave you the layout for a reason because he did it in his in his He was able to make his way 50 ft out of his house to their front door where he was covered in blood. The 18-year-old went to the door to find the neighbor literally out through the glass.

He had shot himself in the head. >> He was petrified and called his mother. Didn't open the door cuz he didn't know what was happening. All he said was, "Did someone shoot you?" And he said the best that he could acknowledge was yes. And he didn't open the door because we didn't know he didn't know what was happening. And when his mother came to the she was four four minutes away from where we live and when he told her what was happening she came locked and loaded as well. All this is happening in real time in a matter of seconds and even minutes.

They are we are now a crime scene and now we are being told by the police we have got to clear we have got to search your house because they could possibly have made their way in your house. So now we are petrified. Everybody is out. It is ice cold. There's snow everywhere. they now have to come through and scope through the house where we are. It is a chaotic, horrific scene. The paramedics finally came and when they got here, didn't realize cuz I didn't know where he was. He was literally in my peripheral view and they were attending to him on the ground.

When they moved him out, they moved him out. I was able to contact my husband and tell him what was going on. But I want to pause here for a second because even in that God is doing something because there's no way in the world that you can make your way from that type of self-inflicted injury 50 plus feet away to make it to the door. In the meantime, Michelle, as I said, sorry, I'm almost almost said her name, but you don't know her last name. She actually made her way. And when she got there and got in front of the door, she was able to now at this point, she was able to hold his hands.

she was able to hold his hands and And he said to her, he was still able to communicate with her and said, "I need Jesus. I need Jesus." While she's holding his bloody hands, she says to him, "He's here and he loves you. And if you ask him into your heart, he will come in." To which he says, "I need him. >> I need him." And she says, "Please pray this prayer with me, a prayer of acceptance of Christ in your life. and he was able to do so before he collapsed. The paramedics worked on him and whisked him away.

Later on that evening, there's so many things that's happening. But before I get there, after he's whisked away, I immediately, she's a believer, I'm a believer. And we began to pray and I said, 'I know what I'm going to do. I'm calling my brother. And I called and I sent a message to Terry. >> I said, Terry, this is what's happening. We need to pray. It's funny because I always thought to myself, one day, maybe I'll join the sniper team, prayer sniper team. But never in my wildest dreams thought that this would be something that I was going to be thrust into.

Uh never. You know they say truth is stranger than fiction. It is. So Terry Amra I sent a message to sister Shaunine and we began to to start praying. My other daughter Shelby who was at a rise in Finland last year, she contacted her prayer group in Finland immediately and told them what was happening and told them that we need to start praying. I can give you his name. His name is Dan. We need to pray for Dan. So, as we're praying for Dan, Terry's praying, Amber's praying, Sister Shaun's praying, and I am praying, and my neighbor is also praying.

We're still a crime scene for hours because they don't know. They had gone through my house. There's nobody here. And it wasn't until close to midnight that they said it was all clear and they left the property. We have no idea what is going on. But anyway, in short, I'm trying to shorten this, but it's I need you to really get the context of what we have all what we've all been through. And I reason why I want Terry and Amber side by side in terms of the view because they're intricral part of this testimony.

And sister Sha need, if she were here, she'd be on screen, too. >> Amen. So my other daughter Lauren, she's also praying and she when she's is able to we able to leave the property to go to her place, she sends me a message and she says, "Mom, look outside." She said, "Mom, it's snowing." And I said, "Yeah, it is." And she went straight to Isaiah chapter one. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. >> She said, "Mom, God's going to do something." >> She said, "I see." She said, "I know.

I don't know how. I don't know why. I don't know. I don't know anything, but his sins are forgiven and he I believe he's in the kingdom. That his he's going to be in the kingdom." And I said, "Listen, if God can do that for the thief on the cross, I don't know anything about his background, but if he could do it for the thief on the cross, he could do it for anybody. So, I'm not saying he can't do it and I'm saying he won't do it. I'm believing with you." So, we continued to pray I was a we were able later on to contact.

He lived alone, so he's not married. There's no children. And so we were trying to reach his parents. So we were able to reach his parents and we're able to contact the parents and we ended up talking to his dad who they are just traumatized. The family is traumatized. >> They never saw any they never saw this coming. We they all they kept saying was we we missed the signs. We missed the signs. So Dan had two pets, two dogs, um, and one of them was able to when the police had come before they took Dan away had got out, but he was out, but he's older, kind of older.

And I share that for a reason because we end up taking him in. We have a little Yorkie who thinks he's a German Shepherd and he's not, but um we cared for him and we just felt like these were these were these were Dan's kids and we wanted to take care of them. So every update I would get, I would text now Dan's sniper team, brother Terry, Sister Shaine. But I was able to talk with Dan's father. I said, "Listen, we are praying for your son and please know we're also praying for you." And I said, "If you don't mind," I said, "we are calling his name out all over the world."

I said my daughter this she's contacted her friends in Finland and we are praying for him. >> It's so much I'm trying my best to keep myself together. So, >> With every update, we didn't know what was happening. But when I talked to him that night, he said that he was in surgery. And I said, "He's in surgery." In my my mind think he's in surgery. So, okay, he's in surgery. And all I they're telling them is he's stable >> right now. He's holding up in the surgery. And I said, "Okay." I said, "Do me a favor.

It doesn't matter. anytime, day or night, call or text me. Whatever update you give me, I immediately am going to give it to the sniper team. And I did. >> And they immediately started praying. So with that prayer, they would go right in. The next day, this is now Monday. He's in ICU. He's still alive. Heavy sedation. I see his brother. I meet his brother. There's only two of them. And he meet I meet him here in the property and he collapses in my arms. >> He is not a belie at all. And I said asked him if he didn't mind if I prayed with him and he said, "I don't mind."

He said, "I don't believe God. I don't believe in God, but you know, if you want to pray, that's, you know, go ahead." And I did. and he just cried in my arms. >> He was on his way back to the hospital. They're taking turns. The parents are distraught. His mom, their their mom and and the dad is just so distraught. But he's now we go into Tuesday and I'm giving the update. He's still here. Brother Terry can tell you he's still here. Wednesday, Dan's dad gives me a message. They weaned him a little bit off of the sedation to see if he had any cognitive function at all.

And he was able to move a little bit of his limbs. And once they saw that, they put him back under again. what Thursday they were able to take him off a little bit more to see if he had any additional commands he could follow and he had more that he could do with the right side was a little stronger than the left side that's Thursday there's so many details in there between there that I don't have time to do it I'm just giving you When I saw his dad yesterday, he said that they had taken him off.

They were weaning him off the breathing apparatus that he was still here. Okay. Sent the update one more one more time. All right, sniper team. This is what he did. I copied and paste. I didn't even write it. I would just copy what he sent me the text and put it right in there. Said, "Dan, update from Dan's dad. Here it is. Let's go." Now I'm being now at this point Terry's already asked me if I would come and share the testimony we've got so far and I said absolutely but the enemy tried to come in yesterday for a testimony I can't share right now but it was it was pretty bad >> and Terry said the enemy doesn't want you to share it and I responded back to him Revelation 12:11 and they overcame him by the blood of the lamb and the word of their testimony.

I said, I'm going to tell this testimony. >> So, so Terry and Amra and Sister Shaunine don't don't know this part. They're going to hear this for the first time. Dan's father called me this morning and this is what he said. First, he wanted to say thank you to the prayer team. He wanted to thank Terry Ammer and Sister Shaine. And I'm going to let Shelby know for her prayers and the prayer group in Finland. How appreciative that he is for your prayers over his son because he wasn't a believer, but he has seen God do something and now he has accepted Jesus.

Hallelujah. >> But this morning he also said and shared this testimony. And I want you to remember it is Sabbath. He said the breathing tube has been removed. All machines are removed. He is talking. He is moving all of his limbs. His left side is a little weak, but the right side is strong. They have him on a soft diet. >> He is able to eat soft food, yogurts, things of that night. That way, he wants a cheese steak, but the doctors told him, "You can't have a cheese steak." >> Yeah. Yeah. He remembers phone numbers.

>> Wow. >> And he told them what he did. And this family is getting healing and help. >> Praise God. >> Hallelujah. >> There's so much more. Yes, >> here's an extra gift. >> And this is for brother Terry. I took it upon myself to ask Dan's dad if he wouldn't mind sharing with the men's group when they are ready. >> And to which he said, "Yes, would be glad to do so." >> Praise God. So, Brother Terry, he said, "Whenever you are ready and whenever they're ready and they're up to it, they will be happy to connect with you and have you uh greet them and bring him into the men's group when he's ready.

They want to share the testimony of what God is doing and what how you are such an integral part along with Amar and sister Shaunie and this other sniper teams across the world in this miraculous healing and And I really believe there's no way a man who has done a self-inflicted wound like this would make it 50 feet. >> That was his guardian angel taking him to a place because God had put everybody in place. There's no way that a neurosurgeon that would have been on call that night at the hospital was already in place.

Everybody was in place for something we didn't know and we was preparing for. So let this testimony be what it is. God is great and great >> to be praised. >> Yes, he is, Patrice. >> Yes, he is. Praise God for you. And I know we we we knew it was worth taking the time to hear how God >> can step in in such a tragic moment like that. And this is only half. >> Stay tuned. There is another glorious chapter. You guys haven't heard, but you have been praying. So, thank God. And and saints, I part of me wants to say I'm sorry because we don't usually take up this much time.

We're getting ready for the word of God. But listen, that is part of the word of God, is it not? Is that not God moving? That was an amazing >> and if he done it for Dan, he will do it for you. Uh we still need to go to the throne of grace and sorry for taking up so much time, but may God encourage your heart, lift your spirits, believe that he's hearing and answering your prayers. Sister Barbara from the Fab 7 is going to come and she's going to introduce a prayer from all the way halfway around the world in Africa.

Sister Shalala is going to pray for us today briefly and we're going to thank God for the word that's coming forth. Sister Barbara, we love you. Thank you for waiting on us and being so There's my beautiful sister Barbara. Hallelujah. >> Hi, Barbara. >> Yes. Yes. >> Happy Sabbath all. I love praise reports. They're my favorite part. And and that praise report was a was just wanted to pull my heart out. And and it's one of those cases where you say, "But Christ And that's it. So, I'm not going to go into our scripture today because of the time, but um our scripture was Ephesians 6:18.

So, look it up yourself in the in the photo theology Bible and and um the prayer I'm just going to read the prayer requests and then >> and and I'm going to go really quickly with it and then we're going to bring sister Chalala on video um all the way from Zambia um and she will do the prayer. So, we are saying a prayer for Sister Ammer and and Terry's birthday. And Nicole is asking us to pray for the steroids that the doctor prescribed for her dad that they will work and restore his hearing in his right ear.

And Reed WLR is asking us to pray that for the church to pray for his wife's upcoming travel. And um he has a reward that's only a hurdle away and he's losing his hearing now first in his left ear. um he knows that healing is in the Lord's hands. And si sister Sister Sheila is asking us to pray for Stephanie Rose who is in the valley of decision on keeping the She believes it's true. Um, but she's tied to her Sunday church. And Llaya Peterson is requesting prayer that their heat pump, which has not been working, will be fixed this week.

And though it's likely to be expensive, she's praying that it will be something that they can afford. And she's asking to give them the faith that the Lord will provide. And then Gingerella 007 is requesting prayer for a friend, sorry, who needs $20,000 to cover medical expenses for a delicate condition and may his GoFundMe um may he get many returns on that and he be able to receive all the treatment needed and bless those who donate. She's also requesting for prayer for all the ministries including Pastor Meyers who wield the word of God globally.

And she's asking for prayer for crushing initable headaches and people who for people who suffer from migraines. She said it's very tough but they still trust the Lord. and Veronica Foster Kitten uh 298 is praying is asking for prayer for her husband um that he will take the time to do the photo theology with her and she says I have a tendency to want to do things on my own and Ponzi Pansy is asking for to please pray for his family and especially his son Wanza and friend Grace Pray and I am asking for prayer for all those who are learning and navigating the photo theology suite that all may use this tool to its fullest.

Thanks to the Lord for this tool and to God be the glory. Also prayer for the technology and the live stream and be with the tech team and all the plates that they have spinning. And Jamie A5382 is asking us to pray for Dela who is unhoused and contact with her has been lost. And Renee Baytops 146 is is asking for prayer for her family and her son Tyrus who needs prayer for mental health and prayer for her needing God and leading and direction. and she is in need of a place for her and her two grandsons to move to.

And we continue to pray for Eden's full recovery. Give her your comfort, your peace, and your hope. And after that testimony, we are praying for Dan's recovery. And we are praying for pastor and today's message. So now we'll go to Chalalala in Zambia her video and for prayer for these in the prayer request. Living mana family good morning. I pray the Lord is watching over you keeping you and protecting you. Happy Sabbath. Happy Sabbath. This is from Zambia. I pray today that we are enjoying the wonderful Sabbath that the Lord has given us.

This is the day he has given us. We will rejoice and be glad in it. So I'm going to pray with you in Jesus mighty name. Let us pray. Our father who art in heaven, glory, honor and majesty belongs to you. Who alone is mighty, great in praises, doing wonders. We bless your holy name. We thank you for bringing us together on this wonderful Sabbath to worship you, to exalt your name, to give you praise for you are deserving of it, Jehovah. Aba Father, I pray that everyone who's tuned in today, forgive us our shortcomings.

Cleanse us of all our unrighteousness. Give us clean hearts. Purify our hearts and our minds. Jehovah I pray father in Jesus name any person today who's tuned in with any form of affliction dear God I pray that by the mighty name of Jesus let every form of affliction be loosed in Jesus' name I pray for everyone who is in interceding for a family member for healing father God let them receive the healing in Jesus name everyone who's tuned in today they are afflicted with disease is almighty God. I pray that let them receive healing by the mighty hand of our Lord Jesus Christ.

I pray for us today who are tuned in. Give us the spirit of wisdom, of knowledge, and of understanding that as the message shall be preached, Father God, we shall not go back the same. We shall be restored. We shall be renewed in the power of the Holy Spirit. Father God, you will transform our hearts and our minds and be brought in in in alignment with Christ. I pray for your man's servant today as he preaches the message of the gospel that those who are seeking hope today, they shall come to this stream.

You shall lead them and they shall find hope. Everyone who's lo who's tuned in today to listen to the word of God. Father God, I pray that that hope be restored. Almighty God, let healings be given in Jesus' name. That you shall empower every word spoken by him today. That father God, healing, restoration, grace, and favor shall be granted upon us in Jesus' name. I pray, Father God, that you shall sanctify us by the word which shall be taught today because thy word is truth. We thank you that you are a good God, that you are a mighty father who watches over us, who never leaves us nor forsakes us.

So thank you. I pray to you Lord, be glorified, be exalted because you are able to do exceedingly abundantly more than we could ever ask or imagine. In the blessed name of our king and our Lord Jesus Christ, I anchor this prayer. Amen. And amen. May the Lord bless you, the Lord keep you. May he make his face to shine upon you and give you peace in Jesus name. Amen. There's never been a moment. You were forgotten. You were not hopeless. Though you have been broken, you're innocent stolen. I hear you whisper underneath your breath.

I hear your sos. Your sos. I will send out an army to find you in the middle of the darkest night is true. I will rescue you. that cannot be covered over and over. You're not defenseless. I'll be your shelter and I'll be your armor. I hear you whisper underneath your breath. I hear your sos your s. Yay. Oh, and I will send out an army to find you in the middle of the darkest tonight. It's true. I will rescue you. Oh, and I will never stop marching to reach you. In the middle of the hardest fight, it's true.

I will rescue you. Oh, I hear the whisper I hear you whisper, "You have nothing left." you in the middle of the darkest night. It's true. I will rescue you. Oh, and I will never stop watching to reach you in the middle of the heart. If I true, I will resue you. Oh, I will resue you. Oh, I will rescue Heat up here. up Amen. Amen. Happy Sabbath everyone. Um we want to welcome you to Living Mana online church once again. We are getting ready to get into the word of God. We're getting ready to uh partake of the living mana.

And um if you are if you are ready and prepared after uh that that opening to hear the word of God, please go ahead and in the chat. Um, we're going to be dealing with a very special message today. Um, and that message is entitled A Deep Sleep. A deep sleep. And so I want to invite you to uh pray with me as we get ready to open the word of God. Heavenly Father, Lord, we come before you today asking that you would guide our thoughts, Lord. As we open your word, I pray, Lord, that you would please speak and that your people will hear.

Thank you, Lord, for this message and for what it will do in the hearts of those who hear it. We pray his name. Amen. Amen. So once again everyone um we are going to be addressing the the subject uh that I've entitled a deep sleep and I want to go to the screen. Um we're going to be looking at we're going to be beginning in Genesis chapter 2 and verse 21. Genesis chapter 2 and verse 21, the Bible says, "And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof.

And the rib which the Lord God had taken from man made he a woman and he brought her unto the man. Now I am going to uh simply mention something right off the top here. Um, and this is going to set the stage for the entire message. In Genesis 2 21 and 22, uh, the Bible tells us that God brought Adam into a deep sleep. He put him into a deep sleep. And this word uh this this this term a deep sleep we must understand is not the normal type of sleep. Um the Hebrew word for deep sleep here is tardama which means a term or is a term that is often associated with a divine supernatural slumber.

a state where human consciousness is entirely suspended. It is not a natural sleep but an induced state, a profound trance. There is a lot in this verse when when when God says that it is not good for the man to be alone. I want you to note what does not happen. God does not say to Adam, "Adam, I need you to solve this problem." God does not say to Adam, "Adam, uh, I need you to to create or to help create a help meat for you. I need you to assist in the process." None of that happens. God simply puts Adam into a deep sleep and then God works.

Adam does not even witness the process. There is a problem. Adam goes to sleep and when he wakes up, the problem is solved. And you guys, I want you to know that this is the theme I'm going to build on. And and we we might just stop the message right here. God put Adam into a deep sleep and then performed what he needed to perform. It was like divine anesthesia. God put Adam to sleep and performs the first surgery. And within this this this picture, we actually have a picture of something so powerful, so amazing.

But I want to add to that picture before we get to that point. Let's go to the book of Genesis. The book of Genesis chapter 15. In Genesis chapter 15, Abraham or Abram as the Bible calls him at that point is is wondering about this promise that God has laid out for him. Abraham, you will have an heir. Abraham is now old and he's wondering, is this going to happen? The Bible says in Genesis 15 verse 8 and 9, he said, 'Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? Now, the the it here is now talking about the land.

Earlier on in the chapter, he's talking about the uh uh the the seed, and now he's asking, "How will I know that I will inherit the land?" And he's talking about the promised land. And and God says to him, "Take me a heer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he took unto him all of these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another, but the birds he divided not." Verse 11. And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away.

And now watch this. And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram. And lo, and horror of great darkness fell upon him. And he said unto Abram, "Know of assurityity that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them 400 years." and also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. And afterward thou shalt come out with great substance, and thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace, and thou shalt be buried in a good old age, but in the fourth generation they shall come hither again, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.

Continuing, it says, "And it came to pass that when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces. In the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abraham, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land from the river of Egypt unto the great unto the great river, the river Euphrates." Please note, please note in this story that Abraham, Abram is put into a deep sleep. And it is during this deep sleep that God makes a covenant with him.

I want you to note again, God is showing Abraham certain things that that that it may be too painful for him to endure. Please understand, if you've ever been put under anesthesia, it is typically because the surgery that is about to happen is too painful for you to endure God brings a deep sleep upon Abram because he's about to show him something so so bad, so horrible, so horrifying that Abram may not be able to take it. But please also note that it is while Abram is sleeping that God covenants with Abraham.

There's an animal that is sacrificed and God walks through the pieces. By the way, when the when the animal was cut into pieces and and and and the Bible says that that God is moving through these pieces, what would typically happening happen in those times is that a covenant where animals cut in pieces. The two individuals would would walk between those pieces and would basically be saying, "Listen, may I become like this if I don't keep my part of the covenant? God lets Abraham sleep, not just a regular sleep, a deep sleep, while God himself is the one who walks through the covenant, who walks through the pieces.

Almost as if God is saying, "I am the one. This covenant will be one that I establish with you." In the book of Genesis, in Genesis chapters 1 and two, Adam is put into a deep sleep so that God can work. In the story of Abraham, Abraham is put into a deep sleep so that God can work. Let me take you to another sleep story. Another sleep story. Come with me to the book of Daniel. Daniel chapter 8. Daniel is receiving a vision. It is a vision of a ram and a hegoat and then this little horn that rises.

And now God is about to show Daniel something absolutely so overwhelming that he has to allow Daniel to go into a deep sleep. Notice with me Deuteron Daniel 8:1 17. So he came near where where I stood. And when he came I was afraid and fell on my face. And he said unto me, understand son of man, the vision refers to the time of the end. Verse 18. Now, as he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep on my face toward the ground, but he touched me and set me upright. And he said, "Behold, I will make you to know what shall be in the latter end of the indignation.

For at the time of the end, or for at the time appointed, the end shall be." And what does he show Daniel? I will just want to focus on one point here in Daniel 8:25. And through his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper in his hand and he shall magnify himself in his heart and by peace shall destroy many and he shall stand up against the prince of princes but shall be broken without hand. Daniel is allowed to see Daniel is allowed to see an attack on the prince of princes, but ultimately the prince of princes conquering.

And let me say, let me say that Daniel is allowed to go into a deep sleep probably precisely because what he was going to see was so overwhelming, so painful, the persecution of God's people in the future, the the the crucifying and the persecution of Christ in person and in his people that God had to allow Daniel to go into I want you to notice a trend here. I want you to notice a pattern. You see the primary purpose for anesthesia. I want to read it to you. It says here the primary purpose is to prevent pain and trauma during procedures.

The primary purpose of putting someone in a deep sleep is to shut down the pain and the trauma. When the body's in a deep sleep, pain and trauma are not felt. Anxiety and fear are not felt. Listen closely to closely to me all. When you are in a deep sleep, you don't fear. You are not worried. Adam is wondering, "What shall I do? I'm alone. God says, I'm gonna put you in a deep sleep. Abraham is worried. Uh, what will the future be? Will I have an air? How many of you uh know what it's like to worry?

Y'all put a one in the chat if you know what it's like to worry. If you know what it's like to be afraid, if you know what it's like to wonder about the future, I want you to note what God does with Adam and what God does with Abraham and what God even does with Daniel. He is putting them to sleep in a sense saying, "Listen, I know what you're thinking. I know that the pain you're going through. I know that that what you're about to see is going to cause you much much much dismay. But I need you to see something.

I'm working while you're sleeping. I am working while you're sleeping. You see, when major surgery is going on, when a doctor understands, I'm doing this surgery and I don't want you to feel extreme pain. I don't want the body to go into shock. I don't want adrenaline and cortisol to be released in such a massive uh uh level that it has a negative effect on the body. So, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to put you under I'm going to put you into a deep sleep so that the doctor can do his thing.

Y'all put a one in the chat. Y'all put a one in the chat. If you all of a sudden are saying to yourself, "Lord, I need to be put into deep sleep mode." Put a one in the chat. That is the message today, beloved. Put a one in the chat if you're saying to yourself today, "Lord, put me in deep sleep mode." Why? Because in deep sleep mode, God is in total control. God is in total control. He doesn't need my worry. He doesn't need my fear. He doesn't need anything. He says, "You go to sleep. I have got this.

All I need you to do is sleep." All I need you to do is sleep. And not the regular sleep where if you hear a noise, you wake up. Hey, what was that noise? I'm like, no, I'm going to put you into a deep sleep, a supernatural sleep, a supernatural rest, so that the things around you will have no effect on you. Let me demonstrate to you. Let me show you what I'm talking about. Come with me to the book of Mark. to the book of Mark 4:35 where the Bible says, "And the same day when the evening was come, he saith unto them, let us pass over unto the other side."

And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships. Now, let's pause for a second. How many of you know this story? Y'all know the story, right? A storm is coming. Jesus says, "Let us go over unto the other side." Now, the fact that Jesus spoke those words meant that they were going to get to the other side. There was no if ors, or buts about it. Jesus said it, "Let us go over to the other side." Jesus is the living word.

And so when he says something, let us go over to the other side. It is going to happen. But they get into the boats. And I want you to notice what happens in verse 37. There arose a great storm of wind and the waves beat into the ship so that it was now full. And he, that is Jesus, was in the hind in the hinder part of the ship. I'm going to I'm going to just change these words a little bit if you don't mind. In a deep sleep, Jesus in the midst of the storm was in, say it with me everybody, a deep sleep.

He was asleep on a pillow. And they wake him and say unto him, "Master, carest thou not that we perish? Just pause for a second and think about that. Beloved, I believe in this story, Jesus is attempting to demonstrate to the disciples what it means to have deep sleep. What it means to have deep rest. What it means to be so fully sleeping and resting in trust, in faith, that the crazy things that are going on around you have no effect on you. It's almost as if you are in a trance, beloved. Listen to me.

It's as if Jesus is saying, "Listen, true rest in me is like a divine trance that the devil cannot wake you up out of." Because I want you to understand that the only one that wants you to wake up out of this trance, this deep sleep, this deep abiding trust, this deep abiding faith, this deep abiding rest is Satan himself. Wake up. Snap out of that peace. Snap out of that trust. God puts Adam to sleep so that he can work. Adam, you have a need. Listen, you don't you don't go about trying to get that need yourself.

I'm going to put you to sleep. You just rest while I accomplish the thing. Abraham, I know you're worried and you're even worried about the land and the future. Hey, listen. I got to show you something, but I'm going to put you to sleep. So that you could see those things. So that you could see the future and not be dismayed. And I want you to understand that even while you're sleeping, I am making the covenant. I need you to trust me. I got this. I got you, man. If only Abraham had really really uh slept, stayed in a deep sleep, but uh you know his wife woke him up, was like, "Hey, are you sure this promise is coming through?"

Beloved, our our our fight in the fight of faith is to learn how to sleep deeply. Our fight in the fight of faith is learn how to deep sleep. How to be in such a deep sleep in Christ that no matter what the enemy does, he cannot wake you up. So despite the pain and despite the suffering you beloved listen to me anesthesia is can be one of the most comforting things if you're in pain like ask the pregnant moms who when they get that epidural when they they're not going fully to sleep but when they get that epid when they get that thing that eases the pain how How comforting that is.

Lord, help us. Help me to understand what it means to be in deep sleep so that God can do what he has to do in my life without me waking up every God, you doing it? God, you doing it? I'm sleeping, but you doing it. No, no, no, no, no. Lord, teach me to sleep deeply. Oh, Clint. Lazarus. Lazarus our brother. Lazarus our friend. Lazarus sleep. Listen. Jesus in the storm is so settled in his father's protection that he's asleep in the midst of the crisis. asleep in the midst of the storm. And the Bible says that after they wake him up because they're they are terrified.

They're not sleeping. They're awake. And look at what Jesus said. He arose and rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, "Peace, be still, and the wind ceased. And there was a great calm. And he said unto them, why are ye so fearful? How is it that you have no what?" Y'all want to know what faith is? Faith is a state of deep sleep. Faith is deep sleeping in Jesus. Faith is deep sleeping in in the father's love, in the father's protection. Faith is deep sleeping in the midst of chaos. It is deep sleeping in the midst of confidence.

And now watch this. Jesus wants to give us this deep sleep. Notice Matthew 11:28 where he says, "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. I will give you deep sleep, y'all. I will give you the power. I will give you a rest so deep that it'll be like a trance." Y'all put a one in the chat if you want deep sleep. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Think about think about all the suffering. Think about all the trials. Think about all the things that feel like they're driving you to the edge.

Think about all those things. And then imagine what it would be like to just sleep deeply. Lord, if there is one thing that we need, it is to deep. It is to sleep deeply. It is to sleep so deeply that no matter what storms come our way, what winds blow our way, we are sleeping. Listen. Psalms 4:8. Notice what the Bible says here. I will both lay me down in peace and sleep. For thou, Lord, only makest me dwell in safety. In Psalm 23:2, he maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside quiet waters.

Sh, I'm sleeping. And beloved, when you're in a deep sleep, no matter how much noise the devil makes, no matter how much noise the devil makes, you're not waking up. You're not waking up. I see y'all putting the verses in the in the chat, the verses that are coming to your mind right now. Like, pastor, what about this? What about that? I see it all. And and by the grace of God, he's bringing it all together for you. Yes. Yes. Yes. He's bringing it all together for you. Listen, the other reason that physicians will put someone to sleep is to prevent movement.

I don't know if y'all listening to me now. It is to prevent movement during precision procedures. You see, some surgeries require absolute stillness. Absolute stillness. If that's brain surgery, heart surgery, spinal surgery, eye surgery, absolute stillness. And I need you to understand, beloved, that when God is operating on the mind or on the heart or on the spine, you know, backbone so you can stand or on the eye so you can have new vision. He needs you to be absolutely still because surgical error, beloved.

And God is not the error will not be on God's part. The error would be on our part. So deep anesthesia brings you into a position where there is zero voluntary movement. And this is why beloved, the Bible says in Psalm 46:10, "Be still and know that I am God." Be still you all, and know that I am God. And so I want you to understand, beloved, that this deep sleep of Adam and this deep sleep of Abraham and this deep sleep of Daniel and this deep sleep of Jesus in the boat really all pointed forward to one and to the greatest deep sleep of all time.

And that deep sleep, beloved, began in the garden of Gethsemane. It began, beloved, we're not we're not going to the screen. I just want want to I need you to catch this. Remember that in the garden of Gethsemane, Jesus knows that he's about to go into a deep sleep. And so he goes into the garden to pray. He knows he's about to go into that sleep of death. And so he goes into the garden to pray. And while he's praying, beloved, his disciples are actually in a deep sleep. The wrong deep sleep. Jesus is preparing to go into the greatest sleep ever, the deepest sleep of all mankind, the the most important deep sleep ever, which would be his sleep on the cross, his sleep in the tomb.

And you'll remember that as he's speaking to to to the Jews, he actually says this. But he answered and said unto them, "An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign, and there shall no sign be given it, but the sign of the prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was in the was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth." Now, I need to break something down to you about the story of Jonah. Because you might remember that before Jonah enters into this three-day, three night experience in the belly of the of the fish.

You might remember that Jonah is on the boat and Jonah, a storm comes. And I want you to note what the Bible says about this storm. The the the people in the boat are terrified. The Bible says, "Then the mariners were afraid and cried every man unto his God and cast forth the wares that were in the ship into the sea to lighten it of them. But Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship, and he and he lay and was fast asleep." Now I need you to understand beloved that the sleep of Jonah in his boat in that boat was very different from the sleep of Jonah of Jesus in his boat.

Let me say it again. The sleep of Jonah in his boat. The deep sleep he was in in the midst of a storm in his boat was very different from the deep sleep Jesus was in in his boat. But it's interesting how Jonah is first asleep in the boat and then he will enter into this three-day three-ight experience. It's as if Gona was Jesus was saying, "I am the second Jonah, but I'm not going to fail where Jonah failed." And so, while Jesus is is is is sleeping on his boat and they wake him up, carest thou not that we perish, instead of Jesus throwing himself overboard, Jesus just says to the storm, "Peace be still.

Peace be still. You know, when you when a surgeon puts you under, the whole goal is for you to be still. It's as if Jesus was not only talking to the storm, saying, "Peace, be still." He was talking to them. Y'all need to be still. Disciples. I'm trying to operate here and y'all are moving around in fear. Y'all are moving around in discouragement. Y'all are moving around in anxiety. Y'all are moving I'm trying to operate and you you're you're risking it all by not being still. Stay still. Stay still.

I need you to sleep deeply. See my example on the boat. Y'all should have been sleeping. Y'all should have been sleeping deeply knowing that I had already said, "Let us go over to the other side." So if I said, "Let us go over to the other side," what makes you think that the boat was not going to make it to the other side? Am I not the living word? Come on, y'all. Jesus is saying, "Where's your faith?" Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. So how are you so little faith? Why is he saying that?

Because you heard me say, "Let us go over to the other side." Why did you doubt that we were not going to get to the other side if I said let us go over to the other side? And so now Jesus, beloved, is now getting ready to enter into that sleep of sleeps, the deepest sleep, the sleep of death, the sleep of the cross. And this is so beautiful, beloved, because I want you to see, beloved, that in this sleep of the cross, in this sleep of the tomb, Jesus, listen to me, Jesus is fulfilling the sleep of Adam.

Y'all put a seven in the chat. Y'all put a seven in the chat if y'all just got just got Did y'all see that just now? The very sleep that Adam experienced, he's put to sleep so that his side can be opened up. Out of which will come his bride. Jesus in that sleep of death is doing is is experiencing is is reliving as the second Adam he's being put to sleep. Notice John 19:34. One of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side and forth with came their out blood and water. Out of the pierced side of the last Adam comes his bride, the New Testament church.

Not only is Jesus fulfilling the sleep of Adam in his sleep at the cross, he's fulfilling Abraham's deep sleep as well. You will remember that God says to Abraham, to Abram, I want you to take these animals and how old were these animals? Three years old. Almost as if they had been raised to get to a certain age. And then at that certain age, Abraham, I want you to sacrifice these animals. And beloved, this is pointing to the death of Jesus. Abraham saw the death of Christ. And beloved, that's probably why God had to put him to sleep.

God had to buffer. God had to buffer that. Listen to this. Not only not only does Abraham fall asleep and this while this sacrifice is h or and this sacrifice happens, the sacrifice happens and God shows Abraham the future. God puts Abraham to sleep and says, "I'm making a covenant with you." But a but God is the one walking through the pieces of the animal himself. In other words, Jesus took our sins upon him and he tread the wine press of the wrath of God alone. And beloved, I want you to think about this.

You know, in the Bible when it says that not a bone of Jesus's body was to be broken, may I suggest, may I suggest that when God said to Abraham, I want you to cut this animal in pieces. So, the animal was being divided and then God was going to walk through the animal. Abraham didn't walk through it. God walked through it. And the Bible tells us the Bible tells us or or or uh um culture tells us that and history tells us that the whole purpose of the animals being cut was listen if I fail in the covenant then I let what happened to this animal being divided happened to me.

Could it be possible that the reason Jesus bones are not broken is because he fulfilled the very covenant and the very promise he made? Beloved, I want you to think about the richness of that. Not a bone, no bone in his body is to be separated because he kept the covenant. Because he kept the promise. You sleep. I got it. I got this. Abra, Abram, you You sleep. You sleep. Daniel's deep sleep. Jesus not only fulfilled Abraham's deep sleep, he not only fulfilled Adam's deep sleep, he fulfilled Daniel's deep sleep.

Because remember what Daniel sees when God when he when he goes into a deep sleep and then the angel comes to explain him as if that deep sleep was preparing Daniel to hear what he was about to hear. One of the things that it said is that he shall stand up against the prince of princes but he shall be broken without hand. Daniel 8:25. I need you to understand this, beloved, because in in Genesis 3:15, the Bible says, "I will put enmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel."

In Jesus's death, the prince of the covenant breaks without hand the serpent. It is the beginning of that breaking, but he breaks the serpent nonetheless. We know that this little horn power goes on to represent it is first Rome and then it is the papacy and ultimately it'll be the enemy himself. But in but what Jesus does in his death, listen to me. Jesus beat the devil in his sleep. Yes. Y'all ever hear people like, "Man, I could beat you in my sleep." Jesus literally beat the enemy in his sleep.

And now I need you to understand something, beloved. It is in sleep that we beat the enemy. It is in sleep that we beat the devil. It is in sleep that we beat fear. It is in sleep, deep sleep, that we beat anxiety. It is in deep sleep that we beat worry. It is in deep sleep that we beat depression. It is in deep sleep that we beat the enemy's whispers to us. Because when you're in deep sleep, you don't hear anything. You can't see anything. You don't feel anything. And Jesus is saying, "Listen, when you enter into my deep sleep, the enemy will try to rouse you and wake you up and cause you to worry and fear.

But don't worry because when you are in when you are experiencing the deep sleep of the spirit, that is where your victory is. You can beat the devil in your sleep. Who would have thought? Who would have thought? You got to be awake. And I All right, devil. If you sleep, if you deep sleep, if you be still, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord. If you just sleep, sleep deeply, I can do what I need to do. When you keep moving around in the surgery, you keep moving, you keep moving around in fear and anxiety and worry, you're causing more problems for yourself.

Sleep and sleep deeply. And now, now I want you to understand something, beloved, because I want to go back to that to that Jesus, that story of Jesus in the boat. Because remember when Jesus said, as we just pointed out, when Jesus said, "Let us go over to the other side." I need you to understand the beautiful symbolism of Follow me on this journey. We're going over to the other side. But I need you to understand, beloved, that in life, our whole goal as Christians is to get over to the other side.

Put a seven in the chat if you would like to get over to the other side. Yeah, that's it. We want to get over to the other side. We want to get over to the kingdom of heaven. So when Jesus said, "Let's get in these boats and let us go over to the other side." I need you to understand that as we're in this journey, there going to be storms. There's going to be trials. There's going to be different things that are going to test your faith, but I need you to just sleep deeply on the way. Y'all go to sleep.

I'm on the ship. Go to sleep. I'll wake you up when we get there. And the problem, beloved, is that so many of us don't know how to sleep. We don't know how to sleep deeply. We sleep lightly. We sleep lightly. We don't know. We've never asked, "Lord, put me into a deep sleep. Put me into a deep sleep." Because, beloved, Jesus is the one that is leading us over to the other side. And if you think, hey, what story in the Bible, what story in the Bible do does God lead a people to the other side? If I were you, I would be thinking of the Exodus.

How many of you would be thinking about the Exodus? How many of you would think about the Exodus where where God literally leads them over the Red Sea unto the other side. This was their journey to the promised land. But there's something very specific that I want you to see about this journey, you guys. Because remember earlier earlier when we were looking at Abraham's deep sleep and God does something interesting. Remember when the Bible says when it got dark that Abraham uh in this deep sleep sees a f a smoking furnace and a burning lamp.

So smoke and fire. Smoke and fire. And they are going through these cut pieces and you're saying smoke and fire, smoke and fire, pastor, smoke and fire, smoke and fire. Why is God showing Abraham a symbol of smoke, a symbol of smoke and fire when he's talking about what the children of Israel will go through for 400 years and then what will happen at the end of that 400 years in answer to Abraham's question, how will I know that I will inherit this land? You might remember, you might remember in Exodus 13:21 that the Bible says, "And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud to lead them the way, and by night in a pillar of fire."

Whoa. Cloud and fire. Smoke and fire. Y'all not feeling me? Smoke and fire. smoke by day, fire by night. God is the one leading them. Now remember remember that that when the animal is cut in pieces, it is a symbol of death. G as it were is walking through death. That vision shows God walking through death literally. And here we have in the Exodus, God as a as a as a smoke and fire leading the children of Israel. Let's keep reading. He went the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them by the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light to go by day and night.

He took not away the pillar of the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people. And now you'll remember that just before they're getting ready to cross the Red Sea, the Bible says, "And the angel of God which went before the camp of Israel removed and went behind them and the pillar of the cloud went be went from before their faith at their face and stood behind them." Watch this. And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel. And it was a cloud and darkness to them, but it gave light by night to these so that the one came not near the other.

Could it be that God was telling Abraham, "Listen, I will protect your offspring. Listen, I understand what what what I'm telling you now is is is troubling, but I want to let you know that I will protect them. I will do this in your sleep. I could do this in my Jesus is leading them through death. He's leading them through the valley. Yay. Yay. Yay. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death of deep sleep. I will not fear. Wow. I will fear no evil. Why? Because I'm sleeping. Why? Because I'm in a deep sleep.

The Bible tells us in Isaiah 30:15, "For thus sayith the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, in returning and rest shall you be saved. In quietness and confidence shall be your strength." In Christ's death, beloved, in Jesus's death, in Jesus's deep sleep, he fulfilled the sleep of Adam, he fulfilled the sleep of Abraham, he fulfilled the sleep of Daniel. He fulfilled the sleep of Jonah. He fulfilled the sleep of himself in the boat. Jesus is saying to to to us, do not be afraid of deep sleep. Because listen, when you deep sleep in me, when I come to wake you up, you'll be like, "Oh, what happened?

What happened? Wait, what? Wait, you mean while I was sleeping this and this and this and this and Whoa." Yes, Gigi. Holy hibernation. I want you to understand, beloved, as as we're getting ready to close, I want you to understand that God is calling us to sleep deeply because he knows that that we will all face the ultimate deep And the Bible tells us in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4:15, "For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not pre prevent them which are asleep.

For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord." Guys, do you deep sleep? Do you deep sleep? Because only those that deep sleep will be the ones to enter the kingdom of heaven when Jesus comes to wake up his deep sleepers. You understand?

When you're a deep sleeper, nobody but nobody but God can wake you up. The devil can't wake you. The people the devil sends to get you mad can't wake you. When you can when God is the only one that can wake you. And when that time comes, the right time to be when when that's the case, beloved, you are resting in peace. And that's what Jesus wants. He wants you to rest in peace. And listen, guys, I need you to see this, okay? I need we're this is our final picture. This our closing picture. So remember how you had Abraham having this having this this vision of the of of uh the covenant and the animal being sacrificed and then and then after that you have this 400year period right where the children of Israel are in in captivity and then after that you have the exodus and the exodus is leading them into the promised land.

Okay so remember that remember that layout. Well, if if Jesus is the fulfillment of that covenant, then we need to ask ourselves, what is the 400year period, the parallel to the 400-year period after this sacrifice that would that would happen after the sacrifice of Christ, who is the fulfillment of that covenant. And beloved, lo and behold, the book of Revelation tells us tells us that there is a 1,260-year period in which God's people will go through a persecution much like the 400 years of Abraham's offspring.

Are y'all following? So then, so then if at the end of the 400 years there is an exodus, a a calling out of Egypt, then we must probably conclude we it is likely that we should conclude that at the end of this 1260 years, there would also come the beginning of a calling out from this persecuting power. Are y'all following me? Are y'all catching a Are y'all catching the parallel? And here's what I want you to lock in on, guys. It is after the coming out of of of Egypt and in in a spiritual context, after the coming out of Babylon that the people of God begin their journey into the promised land.

What is that land called? What did God promise them in that land? He promised them rest. And and beloved, please understand that that this is why this is why here's our closing verse, you guys. This is why Hebrews 4:9 tells us, "There remainth therefore a rest to the people of God. For he that has entered into his rest has also ceased from his own works, as God did from his." Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest. You guys, And this is why Paul says, "Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest."

Our work is to rest. Our work is to sleep So my appeal, my appeal is Lord, show me instruct me. In fact, Lord, I pray just put me into a deep sleep in Christ. I remember one of the last things my brother said uh before he died was that he just wanted to go into a I I wasn't there when he said it. The nurse told us as he had a few hours to live and he said, "I just want to go into a deep sleep." it is interesting. I I have never been put under before, but several months back um I had this procedure done where I was put under And I remember when I came out of that procedure, the first thing I did was I started crying.

I started crying and you know doctor was like everything is good you know everything is fine you're good and then I just started crying. I mean literally like I remember waking up. I remember the doctor standing over me. Everything is good. And then I started crying and I started he he he asked why are you crying? And I said, "My brother recently died I'm crying because going into sleep like this where I felt nothing. I knew nothing and like coming out of the sleep was just like wait I was sleeping."

No, no, no, John. Crying is not a common response. My brother was on my mind. That's why I was crying. And I remember think I remember saying to him, if this is what my brother felt and if this is what he will feel when he wakes up, then I'm good. I'm good. And beloved, that that moment of of rest in which there was nothing happening mentally, it was like one of the deepest things I had ever experienced. And when I combined it with with losing my brother, it was it was a very emotional experience for me.

What will it be like when Jesus comes again to wake us up out of sleep? And we're like, wait, the last, you know, when the doctor was counted down, I'm going to count down to seven. I'm going to count down to 10 uh backwards and then and all I remember was seven. 10 9 8 7 nothing else. That was it. What a beautiful thing it will be when Jesus comes to wake his people out of their deep sleep. And beloved, to understand that we can experience deep sleep now. Lord, put me in that holy spiritual deep sleep so that nothing in this world can wake me up except you.

That's where we ought to be. So, put that seven in the chat if you're saying, "Lord, put me in a deep sleep. Lord, teach me how to sleep deeply. Teach me how to sleep deeply." If that is you, praise God. Put that seven in the chat. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, there is so much pain and suffering in this world. There is so much anguish. There is so much worry. There is so much doubt, uncertainty, fear. Lord, we are praying today that you would put your people into deep sleep mode. And Lord, that we will stay in deep sleep mode while you do the operation that needs to be done on each one of us.

operate on our minds, operate on our hearts, operate on our spines, operate on our eyes, operate on our ears, Lord, so that when you wake us up at that second coming where some of us will be translated and some of us will be will translated without seeing death and some of us will be raised from the grave, but all of us will be waking up at that time to who we are to be for all eternity. Reflectors of your glory. May that day bring rejoicing, tears of joy and celebration, Lord. And so until then, Lord, please teach us to rest deeply, to sleep deeply, so that no storm, no crisis, no challenge can wake us up from that comfortable comforter pillow like Jesus slept on in that boat.

May we sleep through the sin and the chaos of this world until you come again when we get to that and we get to that other side. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. And amen. Praise God you guys. Um we're going to go ahead and put that link uh in the chat for our afterlow discussion. Um, let me go ahead and put up this last slide so you can see where you can connect with Living Mana uh where you can uh submit your prayer requests and also if you are wanting to do Bible studies, wanting to prepare for baptism, please email our Bible worker at living.urch.

Again, you guys, may God bless you, may God keep you, and um may God teach you to sleep deeply. Amen. And amen. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.