Okay. So, saints, I have been muted that whole time, [laughter] so I get to say all that again. Happy Sabbath, happy new year. Welcome to Living Mana's uh prayer and praise time. What a way to start the year off, right? I mean, in that in that example of what our year is going to be like, it is through much prayer and through much persevering that we gonna make it, but we're going to make it. You know, I was just telling the ladies there in Florida, look. He might shut us up for a minute, but he can't shut us down.

He might shut us down for a minute, but he can't shut us up. Thank God that it's Sabbath all day. Thank you for giving me that call just now, pastor, letting me know I was on mute. I didn't even know. I mean, we're all over the place trying to see what's going on. But you know that teaches us we don't want to be rigid. We don't want to be dogmatic. We want to be open-minded. And we want to be ready to follow the leading of the Holy Spirit. I see you all there in the chat. Some of y'all praying with me.

Some of y'all amen. Some of y'all laughing. That's all right. We got to be able to laugh through. We got to have the joy of the Lord as we persevere through some of these trials. And as I was saying, saints, love all of you all. I see you there. Praise God. It is an honor to be able to serve you in this capacity. And as you heard that introduction, that music and and the voice over, someone was asking who that voiceover is. I think it's our beloved sister Annette. It sounds like her. It says that you're not alone.

And you're not alone in your struggle. If you're watching today and you've tuned in and you're getting ready to hear this incredible word from the Lord today, if you tuned in earlier and got some of your questions answered during the question and answering uh segment of the Sabbath school, which was really beautiful, by the way, we got a chance to see Tiger. I know some of you were excited about that. I was I was Tiger came in and right on time, too, because we had questions about our animals and stuff.

But anyway, it appears that I am alone today. uh and and and there's an object lesson even in that. For some of you, you seem like you're alone in your struggle and your trial. You are not. And if you were with us at the beginning of the service, first lady announced that um we have some powerful women of of prayer from living mana who are together in Florida in Orlando at the GYC. Ammer's there, she's there with Jackie, she's there with sister Denise, and she's there with sister Charene. We'll be introducing them in just a minute, but uh before they come up, I just wanted to say we love y'all and thank God for you.

Pray that your new year would be a blessed new year. Psalm 65:1 says, "He crowneth the year with goodness and his paths drop with fatness and so or fatness or abundance." And so we want to pray that here at the beginning of the new year, you will hook up with God in such a way. Our covenant keeping God. Believe him, trust him, press into him, lean upon him. We've never come this way before, but he has seen this. And nothing that will happen in this year, nothing that will happen in your life around your life, nothing you will hear or experience or feel will catch him by surprise.

God's come this way before and he's made provision for you and for me. And so, saints, uh, we just want to reach out to you and say we love you. Let us serve you this year. Let us be the hands and feet of Jesus in your life. and also keep us in prayer that we do this thing together. We are family and and definitely we love all of y'all. Happy Sabbath. Happy Sabbath. I see you in the chat. Everybody seeing y'all, we love y'all. And uh listen, it's it's the love that we get from you and it is the the lives that we get a chance to impact.

It's the reason why we do what we do. Amen. And so look, really I the ladies will tell you I told them before we came on I says watch as soon as that prayer segment gets ready to come on the enemy going to try to shut this thing down. And sure they'll tell you when they come on that's exactly what happened. That's all right. We're not discouraged. We're not in despair. We're not without hope. You know we know that we're we're a fighting people. Amen. We we fight the good fight of faith. We stand on the word of the living God.

We don't walk by sight. We walk by faith and we hold on and we endure. Amen. And so now let us give God some praise as these beautiful handmaidaidens, beautiful sisters come on and and do some testifying and talk about the goodness of God here at the beginning of the year. He said he crowned the year with goodness, right? So I want to invite Sister Amra and Sister Denise and Sister Jackie and Sister Shaun to come on. And uh there they go. Hallelujah. Look at them. Hey sisters, y'all ain't muted.

Are you Are you muted? >> Can you hear us? Can you hear us? >> Yes, we hear you. Praise God for y'all. >> Amen. >> I want to say happy new year, Living Man of Family. It's such a blessing to be here with my sisters. I get to meet um fantastic women of God in person for the first time and it just warms my heart. As you can hear, I unfortunately came down with laryngitis. Perry's dream come true finally. I can't talk but I'm gonna keep it short. But um we're going to each picture and um you know Jackie Sha want to share a little something and Denise has been so gracious to read the praise report for me.

So you guys do not scream to hear what I what I'm trying to read. So again, happy new year. Such a blessing to be here with you all. >> Oh, praise God. Praise God. Happy new year church family. >> I am so glad that I came to this event. Um it was a very intimate uh moment for me. Praise God. And what made it so intimate and special is that I ran into Pastor Mark Finley. He actually did five sessions in last days. And and why was this so special uh for me? Prior to coming into the Adventist space, I ran across uh Pastor Mark Finley and Sean Boostra on a broadcast channel called TVN, which is Trinity Broad uh broadcasting network, which is a uh a non-adventic channel.

I ran across them and heard the message and I loved it. I just I mean I just they just drew my heart. And thereafter, I continued to watch, continue to watch, continue to watch it. Even if I went to church that Sunday, I uh I recorded it. And as soon as I came home, I watched it. Well, fast and this was like the early 2000s. We Danny and I came into the Adventist faith in 2005. And this was before that time. So after we came into the Adventist faith, I had no idea that that p that pastor Mark Finley and Sean Busher was Saturday Adventist and so happened they were at an event that was being hosted by the conference that I was in and I look for God.

But you know what made that so special for me? And this is why it's so intimate. I had the opportunity to share this with him and I told Danny, I said, "If I ever run into Pastor Mark or Sean Booster, I have to let them know that they were part a very intimate part of my journey into Adventism." And they didn't even realize it. And I had the privilege and opportunity to do that. And so, I just want to praise God. It was a very intimate moment for me, a special moment. >> Amen. And gosh, it made me think, God is always at work.

He was always at work in my life and in yours, whether we know it or not. Little did I know, little did I know, God, even then, God was prepping me. He was preparing me to change the things. And I praised. And when the opportunity avail itself to my husband and I, I just want to praise God that he gave me the strength and courage to make that change. And that's when we we we we became Adventists. And I tell you today, I mean, I think was it was I think it was Wednesday when I had a chance to uh to give him my testimony, but it was also a special testimony for me because it was a reminder that my God is always at work in my life even when we don't know him.

But praise God. And since we have come into this faith, boy, we have not regretted it. Not one moment. And it was like a stealing time for me, right? still this is where you're supposed to be. This is where you need to be. And it was a reminder how God has led us in the past and he will continue to lead us in the future. >> Amen. Amen. >> Amen. Amen. Yes. but it's like we have known each other. It was just like it was just like seamless. It was like, oh no, it was everything just is the same but online.

It's like the same people who do the same stuff. I mean we're rooming, but I mean like it's it's so amazing. I love it. >> [laughter] But last year there were 4800 people at the Ohio 2024 life. This year there were over 7,000 people from all over the world. And I say that all over the world and there are people ages there. I mean a lot of people our age a lot of people I mean all babies up to their amazing >> and when I say that even with everything that's happening today we have more God increased and people to get here they were able to fellowship together and so I pray that you Great.

Everybody love that. We just love that that Christ centered energy that they are young people who people of all ages coming together and worshiping together and loving Christ together as one. And so I hope that so that participates. I don't know next year but we are actually put it on our website in my networking so I'm gonna give us but >> Amen. Amen. Uh praise reports. Uh we've heard some amazing praise reports so far and I want to I have the pleasure of reading the praise report from our church family.

Our first praise report comes from Sister Takara Bumpers. Happy New Year, Sister Takara. Uh and it reads from my uncle. This just happened. My cousin is in need of a miracle from Uncle Anthony. Original prayer request. Everyone please pray for Anthony. He was in a car accident and has been flown to UK hospital in Lexington. His neck has been separated from his spine and he needs emergency surgery. Please pray for my little person Anthony Jenkins. He just had a brand new baby and his wife. He was in the accident.

And this is the police report. My name is wonderful mighty God, wonderful comfort, prince of everlasting father. I cried unto the Lord and he heard my cry and he touched Anthony. They are saying no surgery is needed. Yes. >> And he may go home today. He will need physical therapy, but no real damage was done. No head trauma. Nothing ruptured. God turned it around. What the devil meant for evil, God made his good. Thank God. Allelujah. Allelujah. Allelujah. Second prayer of course from Francis Brandt.

Happy new year, Sister Francis. Please remember my husband Nigel in prayer. He was rushed to the hospital last night because he was not responsive. His sugar was extremely low. They were able to get the sugar level back, but he's still very lethargic and slow in giving proper answers. He's been admitted to the hospital. Please continue to lift in lifting him up in prayer as they are concerned he may be having a neurological incident. Here come the praise report. I want to give God all the honor, glory, and praise.

Thank you for all your prayers and support. My husband Nigel is being released from the hospital tomorrow at 200 p.m. >> to return back to the rehabilitation center. And again, they gain back his strength. >> And I got capital letters, hallelujah, too. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. And I got a capital letter of glory. Amen. God enabled to do exceedingly abundantly beyond all that we can think or even imagine. Blessed be the name forever more. Amen. Yes, Sister Princess. Yes, Sister Princess.

Sister, happy new year, Sister Joanne. Next last report is from Sister Joanne Stevens, our wonderful sister from Trinidad and Tobago. I have to pray. I have to praise God. Oh, I can just hear it. I have to praise God. [laughter] But I am still alive and well. On Boxing Day, and for anybody who doesn't know, Americans, everybody else celebrates Boxing Day the day after Christmas. So on Boxing Day, my brother, cousin, and I were coming back home from a family get together. When we narrowly escaped causing an act, one of my brothers got his license for the first time at age 55 and swears he's a driving god.

[laughter] Okay, I swear he's a driving god. >> Just blissfully. across the intersection. As he was crossing one car, coming up the opposite direction while he slide in between two cars, flowing down our direction and sp himself between them. Even as another was about to overtake others, he fitted between. Of course, we saw our night life and she laughed. And if you haven't heard Mr. Joanne laugh, it's an amazing laugh. But I have to thank God that before we drove off and I insisted that we pause and prayed for protection on the road.

Our God is our constant shield and protector. Praise him. So while all that was going on, God just had them had them nestled right there. Praise God. And that concludes the proof report. Back to brother Terry. >> Don't forget to put your prayers in because without pray without prayers there's no praise. We're an anchor [singing] for those who are hurting. And we're a harbor [singing] for those who are lost. And sometimes [singing] it's [music] not always easy bearing Calary [singing] cross. And we've been ridiculed by those [singing] who don't know him and even mocked [music] by those who don't believe.

[singing] [music] But still, I love standing up for my [music] Jesus after all [singing] that he's done for me. That's why I am not ashamed [music] of the gospel, [singing] the gospel [music] of Jesus [singing] Christ. >> [music] >> And that's why I am not afraid [music] to be counted. But I'm willing to give my life. You see, I'm ready to be all he [singing] wants me [music] to be. I'll give up the for the [singing] right. No, I am not ashamed of the gospel. No, I am not ashamed of the gospel of [music] Jesus.

For all the love [singing] that he shown [music] in my life. A simple thanks. Couldn't say how I'm [singing] feeling. [music] I get tears in my eyes. But as for me, [singing and music] I'm going to keep on believing. Yes, I am in the one who's been so faithful to me. [music] And I'm not out to please this [music] whole world [singing] around me. Cuz I've got my mind on >> [singing] >> eternity. And that's why I am not [music and singing] ashamed of the gospel. Oh, the gospel of [singing] Jesus And that's why I am not [singing] afraid to be counted.

But I'm willing to give my life. See, I'm ready to be all He wants me to be. for the ride. No, I am not ashamed [music and singing] of this gospel. No, no. I am not ashamed of the gospel [music and singing] of Jesus [singing and music] To some, he's just a name, but to me he's my everything. [music] That's why I am not ashamed No. [music] Know I am not ashamed of the gospel cuz I got too much behind me to let this world guide me. [music] You see to some he's just a name but to me he's my everything [music] and that's why I am not ashamed of the gospel.

No, [singing] no. I am not ashamed of the gospel. [music] In the skilled hands of a potter, clay takes a remarkable transformation. It is a humble substance, unassuming and formless. Yet, in the hands of the potter, it becomes a medium of incredible potential. With each touch, the potter breathes [music] life into the clay, coaxing it into shapes and forms that were previously unimaginable. The potter's [music] hands possess a unique understanding of the clay. They have a profound sense of touch, able to [music] discern its resilience and responsiveness.

With patience and precision, the potter begins to [music] shape the clay, molding it into vessels of beauty and functionality. There is an artistry [music] in this process, a dance between the potter and the clay. With each stroke and twist, [music] the potter guides the clay, bringing forth its hidden possibilities. The clay yields to the potter's touch, trusting in the vision and expertise [music] that resides within those hands. But the journey of clay [music] in the potter's hands is not without challenges.

There are moments of pressure and [music] stretching as the potter seeks to refine and strengthen the clay. In these [music] moments the clay may resist, yet it is in these trials the true character emerges as imperfections are [music] smothered away and the clay becomes resilient. It is through the work of the [music] Holy Spirit and interactions we encounter that we are formed. Like clay, we must be pliable and open, willing to yield to the hands of the great potter. Life's challenges, though [music] daunting, are opportunities for growth.

The pressures and stretches we endure shape our character and strengthen our spirit. Just as the potter refineses the clay, so too does adversity refine us, [music] chiseling away our rough edges and revealing the true essence God intended for us. The great potter has crafted us with intention and parting us with unique talents and gifts. It is our responsibility to embrace the shaping process, [music] to trust in the wisdom of the potter's hands. So let us be clay in the potter's hands, yielding and open to transformation.

Let us trust in the artistry of the potter, knowing [music] that through his touch, we can become vessels of beauty and significance. And as [music] we embrace this process, may we inspire others to recognize the joy that is in surrendering to the hands of the divine potter. >> Amen. Church family. Um I want to wish you all a happy Sabbath. And uh as we prepare to get into the word of God today, uh it is my prayer that uh as we start this new year, this message will uh touch you in a very special way.

Um and that it'll kind of set the tone for how you walk uh through this year. and how we how we prepare for the second coming of Christ. And so with that guys, we're going to go ahead and have a word of prayer. And as usual, I'm going to ask you to put a one in the chat if you are ready for some living mana. Um please once again, we had some more technical issues with the broadcast link. So a new link is up. Um let people know that the link is up. Please share the link. If you have not yet subscribed to our Living Mana YouTube channel, please go ahead and do so.

Um, today is a day of technical difficulties and uh I'm probably going to be preaching without slides today. So, I just really need y'all to focus and lock in. And um let's uh let's go ahead and pray and ask the Lord to bless this food as we prepare to eat. Heavenly Father, [clears throat] we ask Lord today in a special way that you would please speak to your people, Lord. Lord, you know that I'm sick. You know that I have a cold. You know that my voice um is struggling today, Lord. So, please just um walk with us through this message, Lord.

And um Lord, may the words that are spoken be uplifting and glorifying to you. Thank you, Lord. for your amazing grace in Jesus name we pray. Amen. So um I want to begin guys uh with uh painting a scene for you um in the book of Luke. In the book of Luke, chapter 22, uh Jesus has uh just been surrounded by the Roman guards and he's about to be taken. And it's a chaotic scene. It's a chaotic scene. In fact, everything we're about to read um from this point of Christ being captured really speaks to to um the the darkness of sin.

And uh I want to read to you Luke 22 verse uh verse 53. So Jesus says, "When I was daily with you in the temple, you stretched forth no hands against me, but this is your hour and the power of darkness." So Jesus launches into this what is about to be his final hours, his final days on this earth. And he calls this time period the power and the hour of darkness. This is significant. Uh just a little bit earlier Jesus had spoken to his disciples saying to them in John 14:30 he said hereafter will I not talk much with you for the prince of this world cometh and has nothing in me.

He knew [clears throat] what was coming ahead for his people for himself and for his disciples. He knew the crisis that lay ahead. And and as we unlock this scene, there's something I want to bring your attention to you need to pay very close attention to. In Matthew chapter 26 and verse 20, the Bible says, "And when the evening was come, he sat down with the 12." And so this is this is the beginning of this time of trouble. This is the beginning of Jesus's moment of crisis. And it begins with this phrase.

It was at evening that he sat down with the 12. He's about to to break bread with the disciples. He's about to to do what is called that last supper. And and the Bible tells us that it is as the the sun is going down. And this is significant you guys because the sun going down not only is happening in a literal sense but there is a darkness that is coming upon upon this earth at this time period that is unlike anything that the world has ever experienced. It says it was as at evening that that that he sat down with the 12 and and then we know the story that Judas uh uh is going to betray Jesus and and in John 13:30 the Bible says he then having received the soop went immediately out and then it says again as if to emphasize the point and it was night and it was night that is significant it was night.

It was dark. The darkness of sin was settling upon the earth. In Matthew chapter 26, Jesus is now in the garden of Gethsemane. And the Bible says in verse 36, Matthew chapter 26:36-3 to39, the Bible says here, "Then cometh Jesus with them into a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto his disciples, sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took Peter with him and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith you unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death.

carry ye here and watch with me. And he went in a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou will. I want you to sense the darkness that is coming over Jesus. So, we see that that that at the at the last supper, it was evening. We see that Judas when he went out to betray Jesus, it was night. We now see Jesus in the garden of Gethsemane. He's praying and this darkness is coming over his soul.

And then we see the words where Jesus as the Roman soldiers uh uh take hold of him, he says, "This is your hour and the power of darkness." And what ensues, beloved, is is simple. It is simple. Pure wickedness, pure darkness, pure chaos, if I may use that word. In Matthew 27:32, they came out. They found a man ofSirene, Simon by name. He him compelled to bear to bear his cross. And when they were coming to the place called Golgoth, that is to say, the place of a skull, they gave him vinegar to drink, mingled with Gaul.

And when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink. And they crucified him and parted his garments, casting lots, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet. They parted my garments among them, and upon my vestures they did cast lots. And sitting down, they watched him there, and set up over his head this his accusation written, "This is Jesus, the King of the Jews." Then were the two thieves crucified with him, one on the right hand and the other on the left. And they pass they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads, and saying, Thou that destroyth the temple, buildeth it in three days, save thyself, if thou be the son of God, come down from the cross.

And we know how the story goes. We see the pure chaos that unfolds as Jesus is being beaten, mocked, bruised, and crucified. Then another interesting verse in Luke 23:44, the Bible says, "And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness all over the earth until the 9th hour. And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst." And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he saidf, "Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." And having said thus, he gave up the ghost.

What I want you guys to focus on is the absolute darkness. Follow me carefully. The absolute darkness that the earth is experiencing. [cough] [clears throat] the Bible prophesied this when it said, "It shall come to pass in that day, say the Lord, that I will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in the clear day." This this crucifixion of Christ, it is clear day and yet the sun is darkened. What I want you to understand beloved is that this signifies the darkest time of earth's history.

All the darkness of sin and Satan we can say has been has been condensed into this one period of time where mankind is literally putting to death their creator and then Jesus dies. The Bible says in Psalm 88:6, "Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit in darkness in the deeps." I want you to understand how death, beloved, is like darkness. Death is there is it is a nothingness. It is the deepest darkness that there is. The Bible says in Matthew 27:57 that that when Jesus dies that he is put into a tomb.

Matthew 27:58 he went to Pilate um this is Joseph of Arythea went to Pilate begged the body of Jesus then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered and g and Joseph when he had taken the body he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth and laid it in his own tomb which he had hewed out in the rock and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepiler and departed. So I want you to understand what is happening here. Jesus is now locked in a tomb. There is no light in that tomb. It is a place of utter darkness.

It is a place of utter darkness. It is a place that is symbolic of emptiness. Lamentations. Lamentations 3:6. He set me in the dark place like those who have been long dead. Job 10 20 21 and 22. Before I go, whence I shall not return, even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death, a land of darkness, of darkness itself, and of the shadow of death without any order and where the light is as darkness. Y'all put a one in the chat with if you're if you are following me so far, put a one in the chat if you understand what we have just laid out so far.

Because what we have just laid out so far, beloved, is one of the most mindblowing things that I've come to see in the scriptures as I pondered on this for this message. I I don't know if you are ready. I don't know if you if you maybe be you might be deceived by my voice as I'm struggling not to cough. And so I'm speaking in a very low monotone way. I don't know if you're if you're thinking, "Oh, well, the good part hasn't come yet." The good part has already come. And maybe you haven't seen it.

And so I I need to paint this for you so that you understand, beloved, that that in that tomb is utter darkness. In that tomb is utter chaos. in that tomb is utter emptiness. It is it is almost as if something is about to happen in that tomb that will reveal the amazing goodness of God. That tomb becomes ground zero for darkness, for chaos, for voidness, for for emptiness. It is the lowest that man could go in killing the creator of the world. And now I want you to see something. We have painted the picture.

Now I want you to come with me to John chap 20 verse 1 and two. The Bible says now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene came early to the tomb while it was still dark. While it was still dark. It was the first day of the week. while it was still dark and saw the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciples with whom Jesus the one whom Jesus loved and said unto them, "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb and we do not know where they have laid him.

>> [clears throat] >> You understand that it is at this point, at this moment that Jesus is about to demonstrate his power. But there may be something that you all did not that we all may not have seen or recognized before because it is on the first day of the week who is the light of the world came forth in a place that was utter darkness that symbolized utter darkness, emptiness in Genesis chapter 1 verse 1-5 the Bible says in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth and the earth was without form and void and darkness was upon the face of the deep.

If we go back to creation, the first creation, by the way, the title of this message is the second creation. If we go back to creation, the first the place that begins the creative power of God is a place of utter darkness. And it is in this utter darkness that the Bible says in Genesis 1:3, "Then God said, let there be light and there was light." Remember you guys, this is on the first day in in in in in 2 Corinthians chapter 4:6, the Bible says, "For it is God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ."

Listen y'all. I want you to imagine the tomb of Jesus is a parallel to Genesis 1 where Jesus the light is going to shine forth in a place of utter darkness. The Bible says in John 1 verse 4 and 5, in him was the life and the life was the light of men. The light shone in the darkness and the darkness did not comprehend it. In other words, beloved, I want you to think of it in this sense. This is the beginning of the creation of God. This is why Revelation 3:14 calls Jesus the beginning of the creation of God.

Not only in the creation account back there in Genesis. But in essence, beloved, what we are seeing is that there was a second creation account and it begins in a place where which represents utter darkness, void, emptiness, chaos. As the world put their their savior to death, Jesus the light of the world comes forth, shines forth in a place that is utter darkness. See that tomb, that little tomb as a parallel to the entire world being in darkness. Because you understand beloved, for Jesus to be dead is for the entire world to be dead.

And so and so a new creation began in the tomb. And what I need you to understand beloved is that no matter what your darkest moments is, no matter what your dark darkest moment is, no matter how dark you think you are in a place where light cannot penetrate, I need you to understand and God need you to understand that when light came forth in that tomb because Jesus is the light, he was demonstrating his power to penetrate the deepest darknesses of your life. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Not only, beloved, not only did Jesus begin a new creation, not only was a new creation begun at the tomb, but I need you to understand, beloved, that what we're going to see in the early accounts of the books of the of the book of Acts and the Gospels after the death of Christ is that there is literally a recreation happening underneath our noses.

And we may not have seen it. You see in Acts 2:1-3, the Bible tells us that when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as a fire, and it sat upon them. What I want you to understand, beloved, is that here we have the Holy Spirit descending and as it were hovering. I don't know. I don't know.

[cough] I [clears throat] don't know if y'all if y'all understanding what I am talking about right now. The Holy Spirit is hovering over the disciples. And you may say, "Wait a minute, pastor. I I I I think I remember you just read a little bit earlier that just as that that in the creation account, the spirit of God hovering over the face of the waters. Oh, pastor, what are you trying to tell me? Are you trying to tell me? Are you trying to tell me that that through the the death and burial and resurrection of Christ that there was a new creation account happening?

Are you trying to tell me that just as as as light, God said, "Let there be light," where there was a place of pure utter darkness and chaos, that when Jesus came forth as the light of the world in that tomb, that that is paralleling? Are you trying to tell me that when the spirit of God hovered over the face of the earth, that this is parallel to the Holy Spirit hovering over the disciples? Hold on, y'all. Hold on. Genesis 1 verse 6. And God said, "Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters."

And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament. And it was so. And God called the firmament heaven. And I want you to pause here for a second because what I need you to understand, beloved, is that when God called the firmament heaven, he was creating the atmosphere that would be necessary for man to live. I don't know if y'all caught that. He was creating the atmosphere necessary so that man could live, meaning man could breathe.

And what I need you to understand, beloved, is that in this new creation account, God is creating a spiritual world, as it were, where the where the spiritual man now has access to breath. You remember that God breathed the ruach, the breath of life into Adam and he became a living soul. Beloved, what God is doing as he sends the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost is he's providing the breath. Y'all put a five in the chat if you're following me. He's providing the breath that will be necessary.

Remember how in the creation account, man is not created until the sixth day. So everything that God is doing before that is he is creating the atmosphere and the environment and all the things necessary for man to be able to survive. I need y'all to catch me here. Man can't survive without light. Man can't survive without oxygen, without breath, without air. And so what God is doing, beloved, in this in this second creation account where light comes forth out of a place that represents utter darkness and chaos and and emptiness and and and that light comes forth and then that spirit comes down and hovers on the on on the face of the earth, hovering over the disciples, providing that atmosphere of the Holy Spirit, the breath that would be necessary for man to live in the spiritual realm.

The Bible tells us that on day three, God said, "Let the earth bring forth grass and herb yielding seed and the fruit yielding tree after his kind, whose seed is in itself." And it was so. And the earth brought forth grass and the herb yielding seed after his kind yielding and and the tree yielding fruit whose seed is in itself after his kind. And God saw that it was good. And the evening and the morning were the third day. What I need y'all to understand is that just as the fruits, the first fruits began to come up out of the ground on the third day, so beloved, Jesus's resurrection, as the first fruits coming up out of the ground on the third day is a type of, listen to me, it is a type of God preparing the very food that we would need in order to survive.

You can't live without food. And Jesus coming forth out of the ground as the first fruits is the very bread of life that we need. In other words, beloved, in this spiritual creation, those who are eating, remember, it is on this day that God brings forth everything that is to be that that is to be eaten by mankind, meaning the tree of life, the tree of life that bore the fruit of life. And so what I want you to understand, beloved, is that through Jesus's death, burial, and resurrection, he's created a second a second tree of life, if you will, which bears nine manner of fruit.

The fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. This is the tree of life. This is the fruit of life. And and those who desire to live in the spiritual creation that God has made must have access to that tree of life. Must eat of that tree of life. Must eat of love and joy and peace and longsuffering and gentleness. So what God is doing beloved in essence is he is creating a second creation through his death there in the book of Matthew chapter 27 and 28.

Acts chapter 1 and two. What we're watching unfold is a second creation where light comes forth from darkness where where where uh uh where where the spirit hovers on the face of the deep a and the disciples are are are given the the breath of God if you will that the first fruits come out of the ground which is providing the same thing that happened back there on day three is providing the food necessary that will be necessary for man to live. I need you to understand that on day four, the Bible says, "And God said, let there be the light.

Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night. Let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and for years. And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heavens to give light upon the earth." And it was so. And God made the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. What I want y'all to understand, beloved, is that the son of righteousness, Malachi chapter 4:2, but unto you that fear my name shall the son su n of righteousness arise with healing in his wings.

What I need you to understand, beloved, is that this son of righteousness is a representation of Jesus Christ as our high priest risen to the heavens interceding on our behalf. I am I am telling you it is as if Jesus was making a new creation preparing for a people that he would create in his image. Light comes out of darkness. The spirit of God hovers over his people. The first fruits rising up out of the ground and providing the very bread of life. the very fruit, the very tree of life that man would need in order to survive.

And then the son of righteousness standing in the heavenly sanctuary on our behalf, interceding on our behalf. Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest, the son of righteousness, in things pertaining to God, to [clears throat] make reconciliation for the sins of his people. Are y'all following this? Are y'all catching what I'm saying here? And beloved, just as on day five, the Bible tells us that God begins to fill the sea with fish, I need you to understand, beloved, I need you to understand that that when on the day of Pentecost, when 3,000 fish are caught in the net, when 3,000 souls are baptized, and you understand what baptized means, right?

you you are in water and you are drawn out of water. When the Bible says, beloved, when Jesus said, "Follow me and I will make you fishers of men." I need you to understand, beloved, that in this recreation account, in this recreation account, God is not only providing light from the darkness. He is not only providing the oxygen we're going to need to live. He's not only providing the son of righteousness only providing the fruit that we're going to need to maintain life. He he then says, "I'm going to multiply and multiply and multiply."

Man, let me tell you beloved, God God is creating God has created a new creation which is designed and fitted for the man who has been born again in Jesus Christ. This is why the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 5:17, "If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Y'all put a one in the chat if you're following what I'm saying right now. In in in Genesis chapter 1 verse 28, the Bible says, "And God blessed them, and God said unto them, listen."

So after God after God creates man in his image, which is exactly what happens on the day of Pentecost when that pouring out of the spirit represented new creations in Christ Jesus. See this see this scene of creation happening again a second time. It's as if God was like, "Listen, all those who parttook who partake of the first creation are going to die if something doesn't happen. So, we're going to we're going to do another creation, and it's going to be through Jesus Christ, my son." and and all who partake of this creation willingly will escape the destruction of that creation back there in the beginning.

In other words, all who are part of the natural creation and who only live for natural fruit and who only live for natural air and who only appreciate the natural son of righteousness and who only appreciate the natural light. All who only live in the natural world [cough] will not be able to experience the blessings of the spiritual creation. There is a second creation you guys. And how many of us are living in that second creation? How many of us are breathing in that oxygen of the second creation?

Are living under the rays of the sun of that second creation? Are eating the food and the fruit of that second creation. How many of us [snorts] while claiming to serve Jesus are really only breathing in the oxygen of this world, the sunshine of this world. I need you to understand, beloved, this is why this is why when Jesus creates man in his image, in this second creation, remember Genesis 1:26 in the first creation, God said, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth."

In the second creation, Jesus says the same thing, but now it's spiritual. A and the command he gives, the command he gives is to be fruitful. Be fruitful and multiply. Beloved, that that is that is that is the pure message of Christianity. Be fruitful. Reflect me and multiply. Go out and and and get more fish. Go out and produce more like yourself. Yeah. Now, now I want you to understand beloved that what what is happening here is that this is the gospel commission. When Jesus says, "Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all that I command you."

What is happening here is Jesus is saying, "Listen y'all, you all who live in the in the spiritual realm that I have created, go out and reproduce. Bear fruit and reproduce. Bring other people into this creation. That's what he's saying. Bring other people into this reality. I need you to stop and think carefully about this you all because [snorts] God is doing something absolutely mindblowing in this story. And then I want you to be fruitful and multiply. And watch this. I want you to subdue the earth.

I want you to subdue the earth. In fact, I'm giving you dominion. [clears throat] [snorts] I'm giving you dominion over everything. Now, watch this. Before I get into this, I need you to see, beloved, that according to second Peter chapter 1:3, the Bible says, "According as his divine power has given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness." I'mma pause right there. What am I trying to say? What I'm trying to say, beloved, is just as in the first creation, God provided light and and water and air and fruit, uh food and and everything necessary for man to live in the real world.

So in the second creation, he has provided everything necessary for us to survive. We do not need to go out there and find our own air. We [snorts] do not need to go and till the ground to bear fruit. It's already there for us. Everything that we need is already there for us. He has provided it in the new creation. Are y'all following me? So, so the light of the gospel, the breath of the spirit, the water of life, the fruit of the spirit, the son of righteousness, he said, "I've given you all of this.

Now, what I want you to do is I want you to go I want you to to to to I'm giving you dominion over the fish of the sea and over the beasts of the field. I need y'all to understand this guys because in a spiritual context what Jesus is saying is listen I want you to go out there and be a fisher of men but I need you to also understand that I've given you dominion over the beasts of the field. You will you will remember you [snorts] will remember that that in Genesis chapter 3 the Bible talks about this beast that was more subtle.

Let's read in Genesis 3 verse one. The Bible says now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. You remember this story, right? The the the serpent is a beast. We know that behind the serpent was Satan. >> [snorts] >> In this in that old creation, the beast got dominion over man. In the new creation, God says, "I have given you dominion over the beast." And I want you to understand that in two ways. First of all, yes, he's given us dominion over the beastly nature that that we once had.

But but there's something else I need you to understand, beloved. That that there are beasts of this earth Understand Revelation 12:12. Therefore, rejoice ye heavens and ye that dwell in them. Woe unto the inhabitants of the earth and of the sea. For the devil is come down unto you having great wrath because he knows he has a but a short time. And the text goes on to call him that old serpent. That dragon, the old serpent. In Daniel chapter 7, uh the Bible speaks about four beasts, a lion, a bear, a leopard, and a dragon.

and and God is in essence telling us, "Beloved, listen. In Revelation [clears throat] 13:11, this beast is going to seek to destroy God's people. But I need you to know that I have given you dominion over the beasts." Revelation 13:11, I saw another beast coming up out of the out of the earth. He had horns like a lamb and spake like a dragon. God is saying despite all the beasts that are going to come and attack you prophetically speaking at the end of time I need you to understand one thing. Never let the beast in here or the beasts out there cause you to doubt the word of God.

Because what the beast will do, what the devil is simply seeking to do, just like he did with Adam and Eve in the garden, is he's trying to get you to say, "Has God really said?" He's trying to get you to doubt the word of God. He's trying to get you to doubt the promises of God. He's trying to get you to to doubt the goodness of God. That's what he wants. And the reason that he wants to do that, beloved, is so that when God comes back for this garden, when God comes back, understand what I'm saying, y'all.

When God comes back, he wants you, the devil wants you to be ashamed and naked and afraid just like in the first creation account. So God's mission for his church, God's mission for his people in this second creation is to be fruitful and populate this earth. What earth you talking about, God? This earth? No, no, no, no. I'm talking about the spiritual realm, the spiritual creation that I have created, beginning with Jesus in the darkest place that this planet has ever seen. The tomb, the tomb of of Jesus himself, that is the darkest creation, the second creation account began there.

So now God is saying to his people, populate this world, populate this realm. So for those of us living in the second creation, now you understand what I mean when I say the second creation. We now understand. Oh, so just as God gave Adam and Eve that task to be fruitful and multiply and to keep what God had already provided. Now we understand ah our me our mission as God's [snorts] people is is to is to be about our father's business is to populate this realm that's why the three angels messages is gone to every nation kindred tongue and people inviting them into this garden inviting them into this creation and beloved I need you to understand something so powerful here because [sighs] you do not need to doubt God or his word.

[snorts] If you look back at 2025, you might say 2025 was not my year. I can say 2025 is a is a year that I cannot wait to forget. You know, this this new year was not a happy new year for me. this this new year, this Christmas, I I'm remembering last year, this very time, me looking in my brother's eyes and telling him, "Sean, you're going to be okay. You're you're going to, we will spend another Christmas together. God is going to work this thing out." And in a few days, my brother was gone. Yeah.

2025 is a year that I would like to forget. And yet, despite all of that, beloved, despite all of that, when when the devil points and says, "See, where was God here? When where was God there?" You need to understand that he's doing he's attempting to do just like he did with Adam and Eve in the garden to cause doubt in God's word, beloved. and do not let it happen because God is love. And I'm telling you, listen to me. Listen to me. You remember in the in the it's such a powerful reheversal in the garden.

You remember in the garden when Adam and Eve sinned, God looking for them and he finds them naked. He finds them in a condition that is destined for death. in the second creation, Mary goes looking for Jesus. Wow. And what she finds is life. What she finds is life. What a reversal. God looking for man in the garden and he finds him hiding in sin and death. Mary going to the to the place where Jesus is crucified that the the garden which was his tomb and what she finds is life. And this is what God is trying to tell us beloved.

Despite all the despite the darknesses of the tombs that we face, despite the the the the utter emptiness and void and chaos, how could this happen? This is chaos. It doesn't make sense. It does not make sense. Chaos is not supposed to make sense. But that God can bring light in chaos. Beloved, wow. God becomes the very strength that we need in our most chaotic times. when Jesus returns, just as God came to the garden and Adam and Eve were afraid and hid themselves, beloved, at the very end of time, Jesus is coming again.

And there will be people who cry out, "Hide us from the wrath of the lamb and from him that siteth on the throne." But God does not want anybody crying that out. You see beloved, when Jesus comes again, he's coming again to put the end touches on what he said in the first creation, which was the seed will bruise the head of the When he comes again the second time in the second creation account, when he comes back to the garden the second time, it is to crush the head of the serpent. He's not out to crush our heads.

He's not out to crush your head. But beloved, if you get caught up with the enemy, you will stand before God just like Adam and Eve did in that garden, and you're not going to be able to say, "She made me do it. He made me do it. The devil made me do it. And there will be no plan of salvation who reject the plan God has already laid out for them. Beloved, we want to be of that class which is spoken of in Revelation 22:14. Blessed are they that they are they that do his commandments that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter in through the gates into the city.

Remember when Adam and Eve sin, a flaming sword is put around the tree of life and they are put out of the city. Isn't it beautiful that God actually said, "We're going to do this again. We're going to recreate We're going to recreate. And all who who all who will [snorts] are invited to come into this new creation. They're invited to come into this world where the source of light is Jesus. Where the source of food is Jesus, where the source of air is the Holy Spirit, where the source of light is Jesus, where I will give you dominion over the fish of the sea and over the over the beasts of the earth so that you can so you can win the fish of the sea and even win the beasts of the earth.

even win those with that nature that is just so harsh. I'm going to give you dominion. The beasts of the earth will not have dominion over you. You will be made in my image and in my likeness. I'm going to seal you. And when the enemy comes to say, "Yeah, has God said and you stand firm and stand strong and stand true and refuse to eat from his tree, but only eat from the fruits of the righteousness of Christ." When Jesus comes back to his garden, his creation, his people, he will say, "Here is access to the tree of life.

Eat and live forever. Eat and live forever." And as for the devil, that old serpent, his head will be bruised and all who follow him will be bruised, destroyed, finished. Beloved, as we enter into this new year, I want you to keep this message [snorts] and keep this understanding in the forefront of your mind. What world am I living in? Help me to breathe the atmosphere of heaven. Help me to eat the food of heaven. Help me to to to to get the raise from the son of righteousness of heaven. Help me to live in this new creation and know that everything that pertainth to godliness and life, God has already provided it in this in this new creation.

and help me to be fruitful and multiply and exercise dominion over the fish of the sea and over the beasts of the earth. Help me to be made and sealed in the image of God so that so that when he comes again to take us to heaven, we can spend that eternal sabotismos with him where from one new moon to another and from one Sabbath to another all flesh will come before him and worship. ship having access to the tree of life. It if it is your desire, if it is your desire, pastor, I've I never understood that there was another creation that I'm called to live in.

I've been trying to follow Jesus, but living in the real world. I haven't been breathing the atmosphere of heaven. I haven't been absorbing the rays of the sun of righteousness. You know how they tell you every day you need to go out and make sure you get the sun. You need to go out, guys, and make sure you get the sun. Are you getting the rays of the sun? Are you getting the air of the spirit? Are you getting the water of life? Are you getting the fruit of the spirit? Are you getting these things that are so necessary for your spiritual growth and strength?

You're saying today, Lord, help me to live in this in this realm of the unseen. Help me to live in this world that is only seen and experienced by faith. I I call it the faith world. Help me to live in the faith world, Lord. that is your desire, put that one in the chat and I'm going to pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, your people are beginning a new year. Many of us are tired from this past year. Many of us, this past year has been unbelievable, unbelievably difficult, unbelievably challenging. And Lord, the enemy comes and seeks to to to plant fears and doubts.

And Lord, [snorts] now we understand why. Because you have created a world in which you've invited us to live. And the enemy is seeking to have us eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil that we may be excluded from living in this world. Please Lord, help us not to make the first mistakes, make the mistakes of our first parents, but Lord, help us to live according to your word. Help us to live by faith. Help us to live in this faith world, Lord. And Lord, when you come again, may we not run away naked and ashamed, but Lord, may we greet you in full confidence because of the love that you have for us.

And Lord, we pray that we might be ready to enter that heavenly place with you, eat from the tree of life, and live forever with you. Forgive us, Lord, for our sins. Forgive us, Lord, for living in the real world while excluding the faith world. Please Lord grant us your spirit, your air, your presence, your food, your water, your light. Grant it all to us, Lord, that we may live and reflect your glory and goodness. Grant us Lord dominion to subdue and to populate this earth. This we pray in the precious and holy name of Jesus.

Amen. And amen. We're going to invite you all to uh join us for our after uh our afterlow. We're going to put the link um to Mighty Networks uh in the chat. And so for those of you that would like to to join us um where we will talk about the sermon, the Sabbath school, and just fellowship, we welcome you. And um um we are uh looking looking forward to fellowshipping with you. Um I'm going to again just uh wait for that link to go up before we sign off. And again, I'm going to say, may God bless you, may God keep you, uh, and may God allow this truth to just marinate in your souls, and may it guide the way that you live and breathe and have your being from this day forward.

Again, God bless you and um, happy Sabbath. See you next week. >> Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We [music] have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of