Amen. Church family. Um happy Sabbath. Um it is uh good to be here [snorts] with you uh on this beautiful uh Sabbath day. Uh [clears throat] we had a technical difficulty uh as most of you know. So uh this is a new uh sermon uh link and I'm just trying to make sure I got something up on my screen here. So if you guys just give me a minute. But um yeah, today's message uh is going to be that. So, so believe that. Hold on one second. Um all right. [clears throat] So, let's go ahead you guys. Uh we're going to um we're going to start with prayer and Yep.

I'm unable to see my screen right now. So, I'm not sure what's going on here, but I'm going to ask the team if they can jump in the reream and see what's happening. Uh because I cannot see anything. Um but put a one in the chat you guys if you hear me. Uh, well, I'm not even seeing my comments. Okay. Okay. So, I think a comment just came through. Um, all right. Let's go. Let's begin. Heavenly Father, [clears throat] I want to thank you, Lord, uh, for just giving us um your your word today. Lord, I thank you for the word you're about to feed your people.

I thank you for your truth. I thank you for your spirit. I thank you for your love, Lord. Lord, please speak through me as um as this message is being shared, Lord. May may lives be changed. May minds be open. May hearts be receptive. We pray this in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. Um, all right. So guys, um, I'm still trying to get my slides up. Um, and I don't think I have the correct link, believe it or not. Um, because I cannot see my screen, but we're just going to go for this. We're going to go for this.

Y'all put a one in the chat if you see me. and put a one in the chat if you could see my slides on the screen. I just want to put one slide up, the the uh title slide and uh see if you guys can uh see that link. I see my slides. All right. Okay, there we go. All right. In the beginning, in the beginning, today's message, beloved, begins in the beginning. It begins with the beginning and uh it is found our opening text is found in Genesis chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1 and verse one. Genesis chapter 1 verse one.

The Bible says um in the beginning in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. and the earth. Now very simple verse but very powerful verse. And we are going to be spending [clears throat and cough] our time locked in on this verse. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Um, this text is significant because what we're going to see is that it is the seed of so much else in the Bible. Um, it is the seed that allows us to understand who God is and what God does. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth.

That word beginning simply signifies the the earliest starting point of time. Before anything ever was, there was God. And I [clears throat] want you to note with me that this is the reason why Jesus calls himself the alpha. In Revelation 1:8, he says,"I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, sayeth the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come, the Almighty." Again, in Revelation 1:1, uh Jesus speaking, saying, "I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last." In Revelation 21:6, he said unto me, "It is done.

I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. And in Revelation 22:13, I am Alpha and Omega, the be the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Jesus here is clearly distinguishing himself from all other creation by saying, I am the beginning and the end. I am the alpha and the omega. In Psalm chapter 90 verse two, Psalm chapter 90 verse2 uh the Bible tells us that before the mountains were brought forth orever thou hast formed the earth and the world even from everlasting thou art God.

Thou art God. Please understand that Jesus that God was before all things. God was before all things. Put a one in the chat if you're following me so far. Very simple points, but extremely important points that I want you to understand and I want you to grasp as we move forward in this message. Continuing on in the book of Proverbs chapter 8, speaking of this uh uh uh Jesus being before all things, the Bible tells us in Proverbs chapter 8 verse 22, "The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way before his works of old.

I was set up from everlasting from the beginning orever the earth was. When there was no depths, I was brought forth. When there was no fountains abounding with the waters, before the mountains were settled, before the hills was, I was brought forth. Proverbs 28:26 continues, "While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world. When he prepared the heavens, I was there. When he set a compass upon the face of the depth, when he established the clouds above, when he strengthened the fountains of all the deep, >> [clears throat and cough] >> When he gave to the sea his decree that the waters should not pass his commandment, when he appointed the foundations of the earth, then I was by him as one brought up with him, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him.

The text is letting us know that before anything, Jesus was. Before anything, God was God is the beginning. You'll remember John chapter 1, beginning with verse one, the Bible says, "In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God." He was he he was with God in the beginning. Through him were all things made and without him was not was nothing made that was made. In other words, beloved, the text is letting us know that God is the beginner. The originator. Jesus is the beginner.

The originator. Now, please hold that thought in your mind for a moment. And I want to notice the next thing the text says because in Genesis 1:1 it says in the beginning God created. God created. Now that word create it means to make to fashion to form. The verb especially implies creation ex nilo meaning from nothing or bringing about something of something new and distinct often by divine action. It is frequently though not exclusively used with God as the subject. So in [clears throat] the text the Bible is telling us that God created in the beginning God created and he created from nothing.

He created from nothing. Now it is unfortunate I cannot see the chat. So you and I are not going to be able to dialogue today. So I'm just going to pray and hope that y'all follow me because when I say put that one in the chat, I'm not seeing anything. when I say put that two in the chat. So, I'm just going to pray that y'all follow me, okay? Follow carefully, you guys. God created from nothing. And how did he create from nothing? This the book of Psalms, uh Psalms chapter, I'm sorry, Genesis chapter 1 tells us this.

It says, "And the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters." In other words, when we say that God created exhils that there was nothing there, the earth was without form and void and it was full of darkness. And this God creates out of nothing. How does he create? The Bible tells us in Psalm 33:es 6 and N by the word of the Lord the heavens were made. Their starry host by the breath of his mouth for he spoke and it came to be.

He commanded and it stood firm. He commanded and it stood firm. He created by his word. And so beloved, it is not coincidental that the first book of the Bible is literally called Genesis in the Greek. It means origin. It means source of creation. Genesis reveals that God is the originator. He is the genesis, the generator of the universe, the generator of the world. And [clears throat] that generation, the generation that God does, comes from nothing. This is why the Bible says in Hebrews 11:3, "Through faith, we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear."

In other words, God didn't take already existing substance and then shape it into something. He created it out of nothing. He created it out of things which did not appear which means nothing. God created out of nothing. Now what this tells us beloved is that this world is a supernatural phenomenon. God spoke it into existence. Now here's something very interesting I want you to lock in on for a moment. >> [clears throat] >> Evolution and atheism teaches that the that the earth is selfgenerated.

In other words, it produced itself. They don't believe in a creator god. They believe that the world came about on its own. And in this sense, earth almost becomes like God. Creation is God. The view of of evolution and and atheism says earth was self-created. The things that exist came from itself, self-generated through natural processes, not nothing supernatural. These are all natural processes. Now, I want you to understand this because beloved, [clears throat] what you believe about the creation of the world can make all the difference in the world.

Because either the world was supernaturally created or the world was create uh brought about through natural laws. Why does this make all the difference in the world? I will tell you why. Because today, beloved, I'm not going to be speaking to you about evolution per se, even though I I am going to address that in some sense. But I need you to understand, beloved, the salvific nature of this message today. You see, we just read in Genesis chapter 1 verse one, three things. In the beginning, God created and he created the heavens and the earth.

And I want to suggest to you today that you and I are called to experience Genesis. We are called to experience this very Genesis. Let me show you. The Bible tells us. The Bible tells us in 2 Corinthians 5:17, "Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come." Please understand that the same God that created the heavens and the earth back there before anything was made, that same God desires to create you in his image, to create you as a new creation.

He desires for you to have your own Genesis account. So the question then becomes how do I experience this Genesis account? How does it start? How does it begin? And the answer beloved is found right here in John chapter 1 verses 1-3 where again we read in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God. It is by the word of God. The same word of God that was the active agent in creation back there before anything was is the same word of God that is supposed to change us into new creations.

I'm going to say put a one in the chat if you're following me so far. I cannot see it, but I trust that ones are coming up in the chat right now. Now, this is just setting the foundation for what we're going to see in Genesis 1 verse one. Because what we now need to understand, beloved, is that when that word God is used in Genesis 1:es 1 verse one, the word there God symbolizes the plural form of the word God, Elohim. In other words, in other words, this verse is the first hint at the triune God.

Let us make man in our image and in our likeness, father, son, and holy spirit. So then when you see that that that that God is mentioned in Genesis chapter 1 verse verse one and we remember that according to John chapter 1 verse 1-3 the word the word was with God and we see in Genesis Genesis chapter 1 verse 2 Genesis chapter 1 verse two that that the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. Beloved, here in Genesis chapter 1, the first few verses, we have God the Father, God the Son, which is the word, and God the Spirit moving upon the face of the waters, the triune God, the Godhead, the divine Godhead.

What does this say to us, beloved? Here's what it says. When you are born again or recreated, it is a threefold birth. It is a threefold creative process. Let me show you. For example, 1 Peter chapter 1 vers 23 tells us, being born again, that's our beginning, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. We are to be born of the word of God. And the word of God is Jesus manifest in the flesh. It is Jesus taking flesh upon. So in other words, Jesus as one of the three creating creating uh uh agents or agents in the creation account.

We are to be born again of the word of God. And what does it mean to be born of the word of God? The book of Matthew 4:4 tells us, "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedth out of the mouth of God." To be born of the word of God is to abide by the word of God. Let me say it again. To be born of the word of God is to abide by the word of God. That's what it means to be born of the word. It means you are you are abiding by the word. You are living by the word. The Bible tells us in Psalm 119 105, "Thy word is a light is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path."

So to be born of the word means that I am following the word. I abide by the word. The word takes precedent in my life. But we are not only to be born of the word. We are also to be born of the spirit. Yes. Yes. Yes. The Bible tells us in John chapter 3:5, Jesus answered, "Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God." So the bornagain man is not only born of the word, meaning he abides by the word, he is also born of the spirit.

John chapter 3:6 says, "That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit." Well, what does it mean to be born of the spirit? To be born of the spirit means that the fruit of the spirit is being manifested in your life. But the fruit of the spirit, Galatians 5:22 and 23 says, is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. Thus, beloved, we now see that the bornagain person just as the world in its creative as it was being created is created not just by the father, not just by the son, not just by the spirit, but all three working together.

In the same way, the recreative process of of of us as individuals must take place under this threefold partnership. Not only are to be born of the word, not only are we be to be born of the spirit, but check this out everybody. In John 1 12 and 13, the Bible says, "But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God." Wow. So, we got to be born of the word.

We've got to be born of the spirit. And we've got to be born of the will of God. Wow. The will of God. That is the father. It is his will that we are born again. But watch this. To be born of the father, to be born of the father, to be born of the word, to be born of the spirit signifies something very, very, very powerful that I need y'all to catch. You see beloved, in Philippians 2:13, the Bible says, "For it is God which workketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure." To be born of God means that you will to do his good pleasure.

And you can't will that on your own. That is the will of God. So that when you are born of God, uh h as Psalms 40:8 says, this verse becomes a reality in you, I delight to do thy will, oh my God. Yay, thy law is within my heart. So watch this then. The threefold evidence of being born again, of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, is that you delight to do the word and you bear fruit as a result of it. Y'all put a five in the chat if you're following. Put a five in the chat if you're following the threefold bornagain experience.

Born of the father, born of the will of God, born of the word, born of the spirit means that you delight to do the will of God. You obey the word of God and the fruit of the spirit is manifested in your life. Now, now as we set that foundation, here is what I need you to understand, beloved. the creation of the world. [clears throat] Man, I wish I could see these slides. I mean, not slides. Man, I wish I could see your re your response right now. But I'm going to be deprived of that privilege because I can't see what's happening in the chat.

But listen to me, y'all. This creation of the earth was not made with preexisting material. I'm going to let y'all sit with that for a second and I I'm about to try to see if I can Yes. There we go. There we go. There we go. >> So, let me say it again. The creation of the earth was not made Y'all remember that, right? In the beginning, God created. And what did he create from? He created from what? from nothing. Yes. Yeah. He created from nothing. He created from nothing. So I want you to reme remember this, beloved.

Remember when God recreates you, he's not reshaping you out of something you were before. He is creating you out of nothing. Because you remember, [clears throat and cough] you understand that before Christ comes into our life, we are nothing. We have nothing. The fool has said in his heart, "There is no God. Corrupt are they. They have done abomin abominable iniquity. There is none that doeth good." God looked down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there were any that did understand that did see God.

Do you understand this? There is none good. There is none good. Jeremiah 17:9 says, "The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately sick." Who can understand it? Desperately wicked. Who can understand it? All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. So when you see back there that God created X nilo, I don't want you to think, man, how is God going to make me a happy person? Cuz he he doesn't have he doesn't have anything to work with. How is God going to make me a joyous person?

I'm not naturally joyous. How's God God going to make me a peaceful person? I don't have these attributes naturally. I need you to understand that God doesn't need you to have those attributes naturally. God can create from nothing, y'all. God can create from nothing. Isaiah 64:6, "But we all are are an unclean thing, and all our righteousness as filthy rags, and we all do fade as a leaf, and our iniquity like the wind have taken us away." Beloved, God doesn't need any pre-existing material to make you a loving, kind, patient, a merciful, long-suffering person.

He can create from nothing. And so when you look at your life and you say, "Man, I have nothing. What can I bring to God? I have nothing." God doesn't need you to have something because God creates ex nahilo. God creates from nothing. In fact, we read in the book of Romans 4:17, speaking of Abraham's faith, Paul says, "God gives life to the dead and calleth into existence the things that do not exist. God does not need pre-made material to do what he needs to do in your life." Again, 2 Corinthians says, "Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature."

This is God saying to you, listen, I am capable of creating you a new ex nahilo, beloved. That is good news. Because if you're wondering how can God make me into a new creature, into something I'm not, he said, listen, don't worry. Look at what I did back at creation. Look at what I did back at creation. I got you. So now remember this. Remember what we learned. What did we see about God in the beginning? We saw that in the beginning was before anything was made. And we saw that that led us to the conclusion that this is why God says I am.

This is why Jesus says I am the alpha. And so now here's what I need you to understand, beloved, that Jesus is the alpha of our righteousness. He is the generator of our righteousness. He is the genesis of our righteousness. In the beginning, in your beginning, God, those four words, in the beginning, God become everything for the believer. is God in your beginning. In the beginning, God, he is the generator. He is the genesis. He is the alpha. So now let me ask you a question. Who created the heavens and the earth?

Who created it? We already have the answer, right? God, father, son, holy spirit. God, let us create. Let us make man in our image. God created it. So, so if God created it, the question is how? How did he create it? Through natural means or was it supernatural? H was the earth selfgenerated? Yes. Was the earth selfgenerated? Beloved, if the earth was not self-generated, how can you and I think that we can generate our own righteousness? I need you to understand, beloved, that as impossible as it was for the earth to generate itself, so it is as impossible for us to generate our own righteousness.

Righteousness must be God generated. Evolution and atheism deny the supernatural nature of creation. They say, "Oh, it's natural law. It's natural law." Many of us think, "Hey, I I feel like I'm naturally good. God should God should have me covered." Beloved, listen to me. The thing that I need you to understand today, beloved, is that your righteousness, if you have it, is supernaturally It is God generated. Y'all put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat. It is Godenerated. Only God, only God can generate righteousness.

Again, again, Psalm 33:6-9. By the word of the Lord, the heavens were made. Their starry host by the breath of his mouth. For he spake and it came to be. He commanded and it stood firm. Beloved, that same word, we may understand that same principle when we read in Jude 24, now unto him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. The same word that spoke and it stood firm, stood fast. How many of you want to learn how to stand fast?

How many of you want to stand fast in your Christian walk? to stand fast in your daily trials. God is trying to help us to understand that we don't have the power to generate that kind of power. Do you know what kind of power it takes to cause the earth and the stars and the moon and the sun to stand fast? That is the exact kind of power necessary for us to stand fast. And you and I beloved don't have that kind of power. This is why our righteousness we must understand must be Godgenerated, Christ generated.

We cannot selfgenerate The Bible tells us in Ephesians chapter 2 and and my apologies, but that text is is uh is um Jude, not Judges uh 24, Jude. So, apologies for that for that um typo. But in Ephesians chapter 2 vers 8 and 9, the Bible says, "For by grace you are saved through faith, and that not of your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no man may boast." Y'all catch this in Philippians 3. And being found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith.

I like how it puts it. Depends on faith. I'm going to come back to that in a moment. Titus chapter 3. Titus chapter 3:5. The Bible says he saved us not because of works done by by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy by washing by the washing and regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. So then, beloved, here's what we see so far. God began the work of It was God that did it. God started it. God was the generator. Now, let me ask another question. Who continued the work? Who continued the work of creation?

I know what you're going to say. You're going [clears throat] to say, "God continued it." And then I'm going to ask, who finished it? Who finished the creation? Yeah, you see it on the screen. Genesis 2:1, "Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them." And again they were finished by the word of God. God, the father, the son, and the holy spirit were the active agents in the work. They finished it. They st they alpha it and they omegaed it. Now here's my question for you.

Ready? This is a test question everybody. So pay attention. Y'all put one in the chat. If you're ready for the question, you're going to need to think really hard about this. Really, really hard. Put a one in the chat if you are ready for the question. Put a one in the chat if you are ready for the question. So, here's a question. Here's a question. I know there's a little bit of delay, but I but I assume I'm I'm going to see these ones coming in any second. Here is a question. How much help did God need or get from Adam and Eve in creating the world?

did God the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit get from Adam and Eve in creating the world? Now, I know what you're going to say, right? Like, well, Adam and Eve weren't around until day six. So, okay, God didn't need their help on day one. He didn't need their help on day two. He didn't need their help on day three. He didn't need their help on day four. He didn't need their help on day five. But on day six, he created them. Did he need their help then? [clears throat] Not at all. No help at all.

In [clears throat] fact, in fact, if we get to Genesis chapter 2:2, the Bible literally tells us, "And on the seventh day, God ended his work which he had made, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made." His work. Not Adam's work, not Eve's work, his work. his work. I need y'all to to let that sink in. It was his work. Do you understand what this means for for you and I, beloved? God is the originator, [clears throat] the continuer, and the finisher. Let's do it this way.

Wherefore, seeing we are all so compass are all compass about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us. And let us run with patience the the race that is set before us, looking onto Jesus, the what everybody? The what? The author and the finisher of our faith. He starts it. He finishes it. He concludes the work. It's his work. It's his work. Let me show you again. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 4-6 through six. But God who in his rich mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us even when we were dead in sins has quickened us together with Christ by grace are you saved.

And he has raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jes Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God. Watch this. Not of works lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship. We are his [snorts] work which God created before which God has before created that we should walk in them created in Christ Jesus unto good works.

It's God's work is God's work. So when the Bible tells us that he rested on the seventh day from his work, beloved, I want what I want you to understand is that the Sabbath is supposed to be a celebration of God's work in your life. The Sabbath is a celebration that I am the work of God. You are the work of God. Again, how much help did God get from Adam and Eve in creating anything? What did Adam and Eve create in that creation process? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Now, follow this. Follow this carefully, you guys, because I want you to see something.

In Genesis 2:7, the Bible says, "And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And God, the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden. So let's say this is the first country. Let's say Eden is the name of the first country. So Adam and Eve were experiencing country living. Y'all put a five in the chat if you understand what I mean when I say Adam and Eve were the first ones to experience country living. Eden was a beautiful country setting.

The Bible says there he put the man whom he had formed and out of the ground the Lord God out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree which is pleasant to the sight and good for food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden and also the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Okay? And then we're going to go to Genesis 2:10. Uh and a river went out of the out of Eden to water the garden and from then it parted and became four heads. Now watch this. In in Genesis 1 vers28, the Bible says, "And God blessed them," that is the man and woman.

And God said unto them, "Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth." So check this out, you guys. After God does all the work, he says to Adam and Eve, "Y'all have dominion. H I don't know. I don't know. I don't know if you if you're catching this right now. God gives them dominion over the earth as if they created it. As if it was their work, but it was his work.

God gives them [clears throat] dominion over the earth even though he is the one that did all the work. Wow. I need you to understand something, beloved. [clears throat] that the righteousness that we have, if we have it, it is not our own. But God treats it as though it's ours. He treats it as a He says, "This is yours. I've given this to you on your behalf. You couldn't do it on your own. You don't have power to do it on your own. I did it for you. I'm giving it to you, you guys. That's absolutely mind-blowing.

That's absolutely amazing. And now, and now, and now, I need you to see this. I need you to see this. So, after God finishes all of this, he says something very interesting in Genesis chapter 2:15. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. After he finished all the work, [clears throat] after he had done all the creating that Adam and Eve could not do on their own, that they didn't have the power to do, then he says, "All right, I have finished the work.

Now all I want you to do is to dress it and keep it." Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Keep what I have already given you. Do y'all catch that? So this word dress, this word dress, it means to labor, to work, to serve, to till, to cultivate. The work of Adam and Eve was simply to maintain what God had given them. So, Adam and Eve, yeah, you got you got some work to do. You've got a role to play. All you got to do, listen, you don't need to create. If I asked you to do that, you can't create. I'm God. I am the creator.

But all I want you to do, beloved, is is just to dress and to keep what I have given you. You see this word to keep it means to to to keep watch to guard, preserve, observe, protect, heed, beware, be careful. [snorts] It it often implies active vigilance and responsibility. Wow. Wow. Do y'all see this? God doesn't say, "I want you to create." He just says, "Keep what I have already given you." And what I need you to understand, beloved, is that we cannot keep what we do not first have. We cannot keep what we do not first have.

So the question then becomes, how do I get the thing that I that God has asked me to keep? Well, the Bible tells us in Romans chapter 10:1 17, faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Meaning, I need to have faith that when the word of God says, I have made you new and I have given you everything you need for happiness, for joy, for peace, for all these things, you must actually believe it. [cough] You must actually believe it. Remember through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God that God framed God made these things.

We believe it by faith. We were not there to see it but we believe it by faith. In the same way, God is saying to us, listen, when I tell you that I have made you righteous, that I have forgiven you of your sins, that I have made you a new creature, I need you to believe it. I need you to walk in it as if you believed it were true. Remember, remember in the same book of Hebrews chapter 4, for unto us was the gospel preached as well unto them, talking about the children of Israel in the wilderness.

But the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. God says, "Here's what I need you to do. I need you to guard the fruit. I need you to guard the word. I need you to guard the desire. I have put in you the desire." Do you believe it? I have put in you the word. Do you believe it? I have given you the fruit. Do you believe it? And if you can say yes, I believe it and actually mean it. See, that's the thing. That's the thing. We can say I believe it, but our actions don't believe that we really believe it.

If by faith we can actually grasp, wait a minute, the reason why it seems so impossible to me is because yeah, it is a supernatural thing. But if I believe it by faith that God has supernaturally changed me and made me turn me from a Saul to a Paul. If God has supernaturally come into my life and said, "I give you my desire. I give you my word and I'm giving you the fruit of the spirit." Remember how God said to Adam and Eve, "You can eat of all these trees, Zadena." Remember how you say you can eat of all these trees, but there's one fruit I don't want you to eat from.

We might say in essence that that fruit was the fruit of unbelief. That tree of the knowledge of good and evil may as well have represented the fruit of unbelief because it was Eve's unbelief that led her to partake of that fruit. Understand beloved that when God says, "I've given you my desire." You're born of the father. You're born of the word. I've put the word in you. You are born of the spirit. I've given you the fruit of the spirit. Now, he says, I need you to have to by faith believe it.

And then I need you to guard it. I need you to dress it and keep it. Remember this, you guys. Watch this. Notice how in John 14:15, Jesus didn't say, "Keep my commandments." He didn't say, "Keep my commandments." Here's what he said. He said, "If you love me, keep my commandments." That that's a whole different ballgame, you guys. He's not saying to those who don't know him, "Keep my commandments." Because they don't have his commandments. He never gave it to them. It's not in their hearts. Well, why would we why would we love him?

In other words, he says, "Okay, A, if you love me, B, keep my commandments. Guard the the the the the implication is that if you love me, it means I've already given you something. Now, I want you to keep it and guard it." Well, why would we love him? The Bible tells us in 1 John 4:19, we love him because he first loved us. Okay? So what he's really saying is, hey, if you understand that I first loved you, therefore you will love me. And if you love me, guard what I've already given you. What did he give us?

Look, Galatians 2:20, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ lived in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Oh, so we love him. [clears throat] because he first loved us by giving himself for us. And that's why if we understand that, then he says, "Keep my commandments." Watch. Watch what the Bible says. Why did he give himself for us? He gave himself for us that that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto him a peculiar people zealous of good works.

And how would he do that? The Bible says, "A new heart will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh." So watch this. He says, "I'm going to give you a new heart, new desires, the f the will of the father. I'm going to give you a new spirit, the Holy Spirit, the fruit of the spirit. And I'm going to take away the stony heart out of your flesh. And I'm going to write my law, the word of God in your f.

That is the threefold born again experience. And when the father, son, and holy spirit come in you to work in you, they bring everything. >> [cough] >> They bring the desire. They bring the fruit. They bring the word and they give it to you. They get, you know, Adam and Eve had no prior experience in righteousness before God created them. It's kind of a stupid statement, right? They had no, it wasn't like they were righteous and on day six, he made them and all of a sudden, no, no, no. He gave everything to them that they needed for righteousness.

But it would also allow Zadena the ability for them to not choose He allowed a tree of the knowledge of good and evil in the garden because freedom of choice is the foundation of love. And so God says, God says, if I give you desire and I give you the word and I give you the fruit, I want you to live as though those things are real in your life. And my my my command to you is to keep those things. I need you to understand why. Because the so be so the Bible says be sober, be vigilant because your adversary the devil as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour.

We find this very principle right there in Genesis 3:1 where the Bible says, "Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, "Yay, has God said, do you really believe what God said?" That was the temptation. Testing one, two. Testing one, two. Can you guys hear me now? I think we're back on. Put a one in the chat if you can hear me. One in the chat if you can hear me. All right. Yeah, y'all. Um, my apologies. I don't know what happened to my uh uh to my screen just now, but um Amen.

God is good. God is good. So guys, listen. I don't know where where what's the last thing you heard, but I will simply say this that the temptation of Adam up given to Eve by the serpent was to doubt God's word. If I can get you to doubt that God has really made you new creation. If I can get you to doubt that God has really put his his desire in your heart. If I can get you to doubt [clears throat] that that God has already given you the fruit of the spirit. If I can get you to doubt that God has given you the word and put your put his word into your heart.

If I can get you to doubt God's word where it says you will delight to do my will. If I can just get you to doubt those things, I want [snorts] to share something with you as we close. Don't doubt God's word. Don't doubt his promises. Don't doubt his power. And don't don't think that you are supposed to self-generate righteousness. You cannot do it. You can only keep what God has given you. And therefore, beloved, our prayer ought to be, God, give us, give us, give me your righteousness. And then, Lord, equip me and help me to guard it, to keep it.

Because beloved, the only thing he requires us to do is to walk by faith. Believe by faith. And in believing by faith, you will live out that fruit. In believing by faith, you will live out that word. In believing by faith, you will live out that desire. It's not just a thing that you say, I believe. There's no change in the life. No, God brings that change. And the evidence that you have been born again, that threefold birth, the evidence is that the desire, the word, and the spirit will be evident in your life.

Beloved, Paul said these words. He said, "I rejoice." He said, "I protest by your rejoicing which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord. I die daily. I die daily. I want to close with this thought and then we're going to pray. When Paul said,"I die daily," he was implying that we must be born again daily. We must be born again daily. And what I want you to understand, beloved, is that every day we have a Every day we have a beginning. Does your beginning start off with these four words? Because if they start off with those words, I need you to understand something.

I think of it like this, beloved. Every day, God invites us to country living. Every day, God invites us to live in the garden, to to dress and to keep what he has already provided. And I need you to understand that the devil's goal every day is to get you put out of the garden, put out of the country. You remember Genesis 3:24, the Bible says the Lord, the Lord God said, "Behold, the man has become as one of us to know good and evil, and now lest he put forth his hand and take also the tree of life and eat and live forever."

Therefore, the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden to till the ground from whence he from whence he was taken. So he drove out the man and placed at the east of the garden of Eden cherubam and a flaming sword, which turned every way to keep the way of the tree of life. I need you to understand this. Outside of the garden, you till the ground. Outside of the garden, you [clears throat] have to work to produce. Inside of the garden, there's no such thing. Inside the garden, you only keep what God has given you.

And I'm telling you, it is a much better experience to keep what God has given you than to be out of the garden and trying to generate your own fruit, generate your own righteousness. So beloved, we can live, we can live our Christian experience in one of two places. We can either have country living, we can by faith be living in that garden in which God has already provided everything that we need and say, "I'm I'mma live in a garden." And no matter what the devil says, no matter how he's going to try to lure me out of the garden or get me to unbelief so I can get put out of the garden, Lord, I'm going to stay in the garden.

Every day is like a is like a replay every day. All right. [clears throat] Are you g are first of all are you by faith going to be found in the garden and secondly are you going to stay in this garden today or will you be lured out of it by the enemy of souls. If you are tired of trying to generate your own fruit. If you're tired of trying to generate your own fruit, I want you to put that one in the chat and I want you to say I want you to make that commitment to say, "Lord, I am done trying to do the impossible.

I don't have power to create and righteousness has to be created and it is not in me. I have nothing for you to work with Lord. But the Lord doesn't need he can create ex nahilo. So Lord create in me a new heart, a clean heart and renew in me a right spirit. And then Lord remind me that my only work is to guard and to keep what you have already given me. If the devil comes not for but for to kill and steal and destroy, then Lord, help me to guard my peace, to guard joy, to guard longsuffering, to guard gentleness, to guard goodness.

I help me no longer try to attain goodness, try to attain gentleness. No, Lord, I believe that by your word, you said I have it. Now Lord, teach me to guard it. Teach me to guard it. If that is your desire, you want to move from outside of the garden, digging your own dirt, trying to produce your own fruit. Lord, help me every day to live in the garden. Put that seven in the chat as we close in prayer. Lord, teach me to live in paradise now. To live in the garden now. to experience country living now.

Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for speaking to us today. Thank you for feeding us the word. And though Lord, we had technical difficulties, I pray that this message will reach every soul that it needs to reach. Please Lord, please forgive us for working outside the garden. Forgive us for living outside of the country of Eden. Forgive us for generating or attempting to generate our own righteousness. Lord, may we understand how much of a supernatural work this is. And may we understand that the only way we can plug into it is by faith.

And then Lord, teach us to guard what you have already given us. Lord, thank you for your amazing grace. Thank you, Lord, for doing the work and then saying to us, "Have dominion." Lord, we know if it were up to us, we could have dominion over nothing. Lord, you said to us, "Have dominion." So Lord, we thank you for imputing and imparting your righteousness to us. May we guard it is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. May God bless you. Uh may God continue to draw you closer to him in his presence.

We're going to go ahead and put the link um uh in the chat for the altar live. We'll also put up on the screen um uh our uh QR codes uh for you to either um uh connect with LOC uh if you're interested in Bible studies for baptism. You'll see the QR code there or you'll see our Bible worker uh contact information. If you want to follow us on social media, you'll see our our QR code there. I want to again thank you all for tuning in. Thank you all for uh for bearing some of the technical difficulties we had being in different parts of the uh of the country today.

Atante um uh back there in Alabama and I'm in Virginia. Thank you all for uh bearing bearing with us. And again, may God bless you, may God keep you, may God empower you, and may God fill you, may God create you a new. That's our prayer. That's our prayer. God bless you and um until next time. >> Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at living manana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God.

It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Heat. Heat. N. [music] Heat. Heat. Heat. Come >> [music] >> on.