Okay, we are live. Good. Okay, welcome. Sorry for about the uh technical difficulties um as the link got cut off and we had to create a new one. But just wanted to welcome you uh for those who are watching and attending for the first time. My name is Pastor Lwami Richardson and I am the young adult pastor here at Living Mana Church and welcome to the safe place. Uh this is our Thursday night program that we have dedicated uh specifically to our young adults, millennials, Jenzers who is looking to uh learn more about practical Christianity and relevant topics that are dear to our experiences and to our lives.

And so we are in the middle of a series entitled the prescription. And this series is uh highlighting the importance of what it means to have a real tangible Christian experience uh in our everyday uh walk of life. And so I just want to encourage those who have not uh already joined the mighty networks uh there will be a link provided and you can join uh the mighty networks. And and please we also want to encourage you to go and share this bread and this uh word uh to those who you know would be uh be blessed by the messages that we have uh presented and who will be blessed by the message today.

So just a quick recap before we dive into our study and I know our time is limited um but we might have to expand this series as I I didn't re or not the series but this topic in particular did not realize it was this long um of of emphasis but or this this part of the presentation I didn't realize it was this extensive but uh I just want to kind of do a quick recap for those who are watching uh we discussed in step number one uh the the the the thing that we need to be doing the first thing in the morning.

And many of us grab our phones, we turn on the TV, we try to catch up on the latest news, whether it be the sports highlights or our stocks, whatever it may be. But we have established that the example that Jesus left us is the first thing that he did when he woke up in the morning was to commune with his father is to consecrate his plans and take the plans of his father and demonstrate that in his everyday life. And then we see in step number two that we must consent to God's plan for our lives.

And we must do this on a daytoday basis. And the reason why God allows us and permits us to go through various experiences is to give a word in due season to those who may be going through dark times and difficult moments. And so the the reality of the Christian experience isn't wasted. It is meant to be an encouragement to others that we come in contact with. And there was a challenge that was presented. And you can go back to watch that presentation. But the last week and this week and possibly next week, we are covering step number three.

We are uh uh we are in the step of asking. But it's not just requesting God about our finances or a spouse or material things. But in reality, we are asking God for the Holy Spirit to dwell in us to live out the very principles that Jesus lived while he was here on earth. So, it's not just waking up in the morning, having my devotion and praying, but I'm actually asking the Holy Spirit to dwell within my heart and in my life that he the Holy Spirit will guide me in the decision- making that I make throughout the day.

And as I'm asking for the Holy Spirit, his plan, and I'm consenting to his will be un uh uh revealed day by day. So, we're going to dive right in. We're going to start with a word of prayer. Um and then we're going to get into our topic. We have about 30 minutes, so I'll try to cover as much as possible. And if there's any questions, please leave them in the in the chat or you can leave those uh questions in our Mighty Network um uh app um at our Mighty Networks group. But let us bow our heads for a word of prayer and invite the Holy Spirit to be with us and guide us into our topic tonight.

Let us pray. Father, we just want to thank you so much for your love and your grace. And um as we was listening to the song that you have not given us up on us yet, it has been an encouragement for me this week to know that as I'm transforming and transitioning into the person that you've called me to be that there are scars, there are wounds. There are things that uh I am unfamiliar with, but thank God for your grace. Thank God for your patience. Thank God for your love for we can become new creations and new creatures um because you have given us the power and the ability to do so.

So I just ask that Moami Richardson may not be heard or seen, but that everybody who may be watching now in the future may be drawn to the beautiful image that is your son Jesus Christ. For we ask this in Jesus precious and holy name. Amen. And amen. So we're going to be going through a couple of quotations here to piggyback on what we was been discussing discussing as we are talking about the topic of asking for the Holy Spirit. Thoughts of the mount of blessings page 101 states that Christ has given no promise of help in bearing today the burdens of tomorrow.

So often the reason why majority of of the world suffer with anxiety is because we are so stressed out about the things in the future. In just the last few days, we have seen the economic turnover uh uh turmoil that we've been experiencing from the stock markets to tariffs and all of these things, right? People's 401ks being wiped out and we are so stressed about what's going to happen tomorrow. But Christ has not given us any promise about the burdens we need to carry tomorrow. He says in 2 Corinthians 12 and:9 that my grace is sufficient for thee.

So the grace that God imparts for us is meant for us to find peace in the chaos that you and I experience. But like mana given in the wilderness when we look at the example given in the story of Israel as they was in the wilderness and God gave them mana in order for them to survive as he was preparing them to enter into the promised land. The grace that he gives us is given to us daily. Just like God gave the people of Israel mana daily. He never said to uh hoard up all of the mana for today so you could prepare for tomorrow.

He only did that on Friday because he understood the importance of the Sabbath and resting. Right? And we need to start developing the the faith in knowing that God will provide the essential mana, the essential grace needed for us to be overcomers today. So just like Israel in their pilgrim life, we may find morning by morning the bread of heaven for the day's supply. This is why it is so important for us to uh be intentional in our devotional life in the morning to not just make these uh quick microwave prayers and these quick two-minute devotions but really taking the time and carving out time in the morning early in the morning as Jesus led the example to really commune with him to really seek out his will for that day to seek the word that he would want us to read and to uh uh understand what it is that we need for that day.

I shared this example last week where I've been kind of slipping on my my early morning devotions, right? And I asked God, "What is it that you would like me for me to study?" And he reverted back to pick up the study on the life of David. And that that mana that I was receiving for that day, what the spirit revealed to me, I wanted to share on Facebook. And I shared last week that that Facebook post from my morning devotion was actually an encouragement and a blessing to others who was going through that same experience.

And so this is why we need to be in tune with the Holy Spirit. This is why we need to have daily morning communion with God and seeking for that fresh this uh supply of his grace. Um it continues to say that one day alone is ours and during this day we are to live for God. So in other words, we're not worrying about what happened yesterday. Yesterday is forgotten. We have asked God to forgive us, to cleanse us from the things that we have already committed. He has given us a new day. And we're not promised tomorrow.

So the day that we have today alone is ours. And in this day that God has given us, we should live for him. Right? For this one day, she states, we are to place in the hand of God in solemn service all of our purposes and plans. So again, God may give you a trajectory of what your life uh is going to look like, the passions, the the the the uh the the things that are important to you, the things that make you come alive. God wants to honor those things, but he wants it to not be perverted by our own self-interest and our own uh selfishness, right?

He wants those plans that he has placed in your heart to fulfill. All those purposes and plans need to be surrendered to God every single day. So in this grand theme of the purpose that God has given me in my life to impact young people and to work those in the inner city community that is the trajectory of the life that God will want me to live. So any decision or any petition or anything that I am um laboring for is to fulfill God's ultimate plan and purpose for my life. But as I wake up today, how does today uh will allow me to continue to live out the godforgiving gifts and purpose that he has laid out for me to live?

So the Bible tells us that we should cast all our care upon him. Why? Because he cares for us. The reason why he cares for us is because he knows the thought that I thinks toward you, says the Lord. Thoughts of peace, not of evil, to give you expected end. In return, the rest shall be saved. In quietness and confidence shall be your strength. So God says, listen, tomorrow's not promised. Yesterday is forgotten. Let us focus on the present. Right? Let us focus on today. Let us ask God for all of his purpose and his plans to be revealed for us for this day.

And to know that the thoughts that God has for me at the end of it all, it's thoughts of peace, not evil for and ultimately all the experiences that we come through is for an expected end. It is to reveal God's love and what he has done in our lives to be a revelation of that love to those we come across. So that's thoughts of the mounts of blessed page 101. But it concludes by saying, "If you seek the will of the Lord and be converted every day, if you will of your own spiritual choice choose be uh choose be free and joyous in God, if with gladsome consent of heart to gracious call, you come wearing the yoke of Christ, the yoke of obedience and service, all your murmurings will still be still.

All of your difficulties will be removed and all perplexing problems that now confront you will be solved. Now, this is a mouthful, but really unpacked what we just read. Listen to this. If you seek the Lord and be converted every day, so meaning just because you was converted yesterday don't mean that you're converted today, right? Like we believe that sanctification is a work of a lifetime. We are constantly learning things about ourselves. There are new thoughts, new experiences. And as we wrestle through these things, they may be moments where we fall and we slip, right?

Because the experiences from yesterday may not be the experiences today. So God is calling us to say, I need you to convert your ways of thinking and the way that you handle difficult situations and and surrender those to me so that I can help you convert yourself into not approaching uh situations and problems the way that you always had. Right? But notice what she says. If you will of your own spiritual choice be free and joyous in God. So we can either be miserable in our experience with God or we can be joyous in the experience with God.

We can either experience freedom or we can experience prison. And what I'm seeing in many Christians uh lives and what I when I speak is that there's not a lot of joy, there's not a lot of freedom, but yet they say that they serve the God. So we have a choice to be free and choice in God. I am free to choose what I want to choose because my choices are no longer mine. My choices are aligned with God's ideal and his plan for me. Does that make sense? So if with glad some gladsome consent of heart.

So when God says, "I need you to surrender this thing." When God says, "I need you to speak to this person." When God says, "I need you to go apply for this position," or, "I need you to make with with somebody from your past," whatever it is that God is asking of you, because we've already established that not only are we uh requesting our our petitions before the Lord, but we are consenting to the plan that he has for us. So when he gives me my orders for the day, I am consenting with a happy heart, right?

To his gracious call, you come wearing the yoke of Christ. I am no longer accepting my burden. I'm taking on the burden of God of of Jesus because his burden is light, right? His yoke is easy. My yoke and my burdens are heavy to bear. Hence the reason why God needs to take them and replace it with his. Are you following me so far? And not only that, they said the yoke of obedience. Ooh, that word, it is so ugly in so many Christian circles. But that word obedience is not an ugly word when we're already in a relationship with God that is joyous and we're consenting and we are free in him.

Right? So the yoke of obedience. So I'm taking the burden of trying to figure out problems on my own. I am now relieving that burden to God, taking on his yoke, allowing him to uh help me uh give me the ability to obey his precepts and his plans for me for that day and ultimately serve those he is asking me to serve. So once I do this, saints, notice what takes place. My murmurings stop. My difficulties are removed. And all perplexing problems now confront me are solved. The reason why saints, many of us are still dealing with difficult situations, the reason why we are still dealing with perplexing problems, the reason why our situations are not fully solved is because number one, we have not sought God.

Number two, we're not converted into the plan that he has for us. Number three, we don't even have the we're not freely choosing and being joyful in the experience with God. That we are consenting with happy hearts, knowing that his plans that he has for me are not ill will plans. They are plans for me to prosper. That his plans in my life are meant to give me peace. We already established that in the verse before what we read in Jeremiah 29 and 11 and Isaiah chapter 30 and:e1 15 that the thoughts that he has towards me is thoughts of peace not of evil and to ultimately have an expected end and in return right he gives me rest in knowing that the plan that he has for me it will come to fluition.

So are you perplexed with problems? Are you murmuring right throughout this experience? If you find yourself in that situation, then you need to reset and collaborate and say, "Okay, God, am I entering into the joy of your experience? Am I really free in you? Am I really seeking your plan in my life for today? Am I really converted or am I just saying things and not really by heart following the things that you're asking me to follow?" That's what I wanted to leave with you. But let's continue. So, messages to young people, page 71.

Many poor souls are groping in darkness, looking for the feelings which others say they have had in their experience. They overlook the fact that the believer in Christ must work out his own salvation with fear and trembling. The convicted sinner has something to do. He must repent and to show true faith. Meaning, God, I've been doing it on my own for so long. I thought that my thoughts and my ways were better than your thoughts and your ways that you have for me. So I need to turn away from my way of thinking, from my way of resolving problems and submit to your plan and have true faith that your word that you have proclaimed will not go back to you void.

So in other words, in a very practical sense, if God says that your assurance is secure in me, then I'm not questioning or doubting God's word when I falter and fall. Why? because he is working out his own purpose in my life. And as long as I have consented, as long as I believe that he is working out his goodwill in my life, then I am free to choose what he's asking me to choose, I am being joyous in my experience with him. And this is the reason why we play the song, Lord, don't give up on me yet.

Because there are new experiences, new challenges, new perplexities that I deal with that I have not figured out because I have not trusted you with this area of my life. And God understands that. Why? Because we're in a relationship with God. So it continues to say, so as many poor souls, when Jesus speaks of a new heart, listen to this, he means the mind, right? So the heart and the mind are interconnecting. So So we have to understand that we're not basing things off emotions, but we are intellectually coming and agreeing with what God has for us.

Right? So when Jesus speaks of a new heart, he means the mind. He means the life and he means the entire whole be being. So it's not just he's not just wanting the mind. He wants the mind, body and the soul. He wants every aspect of our being to be surrendered to his plan for our lives. Right? So to have a change of heart, notice this, it is to withdraw the affections from the world. It is the things that I have uh uh put faith in, the things that I have put my trust in, the things that I have put my joy in and my happiness in those affections does not need to go to things that are tempor temporary but in in but but in instead I need to focus on things that are internal that's going to give me fulfillment and longevity of happiness.

Okay. So to have a change of heart, to have a change of life, right? To to to to have a new mind and to ha and be a new creation in God, I need to remove my affection for the world. And then I need to focus on God's plan for my life, right? And then to have a new heart is to have a new mind, new purpose, and new motives. Meaning, I am no longer living for myself, but I am now being used as a vessel that God may use me to fill out his plan for this day. Cuz you could choose to serve God today and choose not to follow him tomorrow.

Are you following me? Because tomorrow's not promised. I can't sit here and wallow about things that I've done yesterday because yesterday is gone. So, I need to have a new mind, a new purpose, and a new motive today. Right? So notice this. She asked a question. So what is the sign of a new heart? It's a very simple question. She gives the answer. A changed life. So to have a new heart is to have a new mind. It is ultimately to have a new life. The things that I used to do, I no longer do. The way the the thought patterns that I used to possess, I no longer possess those thought patterns.

those triggers that I used to respond to, I no longer those triggers still may be there, but I now respond in a more uh godly way. I understand to how to analyze and to process what I'm experiencing and internalize it and not project it onto the people that has quote unquote triggered me. Are you following what I'm saying? So, what does it mean to have a sign of a new heart? It is mean a changed life. There is a daily hourly dying to selfishness and pride. So this is why the enemy understands that we if we're not constantly connected with God that he will use any opportunity, any leverage that he can use, he would take it to he would utilize it to his advantage.

There has to be a daily consenting of the plan. So I wake up in the morning, God reveals to me what I'm what I'mma study. He's revealing to me the things that I need to confess to him. The the the requests I'm petitioning to him. God is revealing things. Okay, you're going to go to work. Uh, but after work, you need to go, you know, here. And in while at the grocery store, God may see I may see somebody at the grocery store. God may whisper a word. You need to say this. And I say it, right? And I'm complying.

But then as soon as I did that part of the day, let's say I get into the car and now I see a homeless person needing money. And God is saying, you know what? I need you to uh spare a couple of change, a couple of dollars for this person to buy a hotel room for them to stay the night, whatever it may be. Right? I'm just giving an example. And immediately at that point, I'm just like, "No, I'm good. I got to go home." At that moment, saints, we don't have a new heart. At that hour, we didn't die to our selfishness and pride.

We did our own decision and choice. So, it's not just a daily thing. Okay, I surrender myself to God in the morning. Because by the time you come home at evening, you can be a whole completely different person. I know I have, right? If we're being really truly honest with God, we have woke up in the morning had a bomb devotion. We are singing praises to God. We we went we did all of the right things and then all of a sudden by the afternoon you're wiped. You don't want to talk nobody. You don't want to hear nothing from nobody, right?

You are ticked off because your boss did X, Y, and Z. There has to be a daily, hourly dying to selfishness and pride. Not my will, but your will be done throughout the day. It is unsafe, notice this, to trust to feelings or impressions. These are unreliable guides. God's law is the only correct standard of holiness. It is by this law that character is to be judged. True sanctification will be evidenced by the consensious regard for all the commandments of God by a careful improvement of every talent.

And I need to expand on this as a comma. So, let me finish it. right? By a circum circumspect conversion by revealing in every act the meekness of Christ. So at the end of the day that God has set up a law that you and I must comply to. We can't keep it on our own strength. So he says by law have I written in your heart that I might not sin against thee. So I'm asking God place your heart of love into my life. We look at the ten commandments and we can quote uh h Exodus chapter 20 and and and lay out all of the ten commandments.

But if we're not having a heart experience with it, they're just a bunch of legal rules that you and I must comply to. But that law ultimately converts us because Christ was able to do something that you and I weren't able to do. And what is that? He was able to keep that law in perfect harmony with his father, in perfect love. He showed the perfect balance of what it meant to love God with all your heart, mind, and soul. And he translated that to the people he came across and came in contact with on a daily basis.

So in every action, I am demonstrating the meekness of Christ. So I need to improve on every talent. Meaning if it's speaking, God says you need to improve on your talking. If it's managing your finances, you need to be a master and improve on that talent. Whatever the gift that God has given you, we must constantly be improving so that way we can demonstrate uh the true conversion of every act that we get uh that that we demonstrate and to reveal the meekness of Christ. So messages to young people says that let us make God's holy word our study bringing its holy principle into our lives.

Let us walk before God in meekness and humility. notice daily correcting our faults. I I want to stop right here for for a second. Let me finish the quotation and I want to harp on that point. Let us not be by selfish pride separate the soul from God. Cherish not a feeling of lofty supremacy thinking yourselves better than others. Oh man, this is the safe place right so I can speak. I've noticed that people have bought in and have given into their preconceived biases and notions of whatever it may be and won't allow anyone to change their perspective.

And in this season of my life, because I can only speak for Lammy Richardson. In this season of my life, God has told me to be quick to listen, slow to talk, follow the principle of Isaiah, and come and let us reason together. And one of the ways that we come reasoning together is to find points of truth, find points that we agree upon and then you know what I'm saying, try to show them in the direction and where God is leading them or God has led you to the truth and helping them to lead into that truth.

And and and we just recent I just recently did a workshop at a church and we was doing this exercise of how to be soul winners and how to witness to people. And God bless these people's heart. They have a genuine heart to really be soul winners for God. But they have been entrenched for the last 20, 30, 40 years of how to defend the truth rather than living the truth. Yeah, I'm not in a congregation because I would have heard of mercy. Come on, pastor. We we have for so many years defended the truth and never took the time to live the truth.

So when we talked about the topic of the Sabbath, for example, it was amazing to see the questions that were presented which almost came off as condescending questions. Well, are you a believer of the Bible? Are you a true disciple of God? And it's like, man, as somebody who never never ever ever heard the Sabbath truth, those questions can really be a turnoff. And one of the things that I mentioned in this workshop, and I hope that you guys will listen to what I'm saying, is rather than defending the truth, why don't I allow people to enter into that experience of the truth?

No, I don't think you understand. So instead of telling people that the Sabbath is a seventh day, which is factually correct, why don't we invite people into how we Shabbat and how we rest in God? The problem is that many of us, if we talk people into our Sabbath experience, they will find no joy in it. They will find restriction in the way that we keep the Sabbath holy. In other words, we will go to church all day long, service after service with no interaction and think that we are keeping the Sabbath.

And even in this training, I had to leave early because it was a beautiful day and I wanted to be in nature and walk and to take the breath and and to Shabbat with my God. I love my community. I love the people that I was training, but at the end of the day, this is a day that God set apart for me. And so why I say that is if I'm going to present the Sabbath truth to someone, it is not just trying to defend them with scripture. It is not the the the gospel doesn't need defending. What it needs is an experience that you and I are having that people can be drawn to the truth that we have intellectually accepted but not allowed our hearts to be transformed by.

Come Shabbat with me. I'm gonna show you why we have the best meals on Sabbath. I'm gonna show you why nature is literally the second hand of the revelation of God's love for you and I. Right? So, but the issue is that once we try to rearrange the way that we think or to come to a point where it is not my duty to try to convince this person that they're wrong and I'm right, there has to be a meekness and humility, saints, daily that we are correcting our faults and our habits. And that takes true humility.

A true test of a Christian isn't about how truthful I can be to the world. And if I'm then persecuted for the truth that I'm presenting, that's not what brings forth persecution. It is understand this. I may I may not be able to complete any more slides. I might have to stay on this point. We have to understand that Jesus who lived perfectly, who was the embodiment of meekness and humility, who literally gave his life for humanity. The reason why he was killed and crucified is because his pure character offended those who were not humble and meek.

They never daily corrected their own faults. And so because they see puress and meekness and true godliness, it offended them and it made them so uncomfortable and it triggered them that it the only response that came from the heart was to crucify him. Right? So, how many of us truly are taking the time daily to correct our faults? To say it wasn't you, it was me. What you said wasn't offensive. Is that I have a childhood wound from my past that when I feel threatened or I feel like somebody's not accepting my opinion or whatever it may be, I I get triggered and then I project my insecurities onto you and I realize it wasn't you, it was me.

How many of us have taken the time to actually do that to anybody or most truthfully to ourselves to say, "God, I come to you in meekness and humility and I understand that my ways of thinking and my patterns of behavior is no one else's fault but my own. It is not my mom's fault. It's not my dad's fault. It's not my uh ex-wife's fault or whoever it may be that they made me who I am today." It's true. They may have molded you in the way that you think and the way that you uh uh uh deal with difficult situations in life and how you handle uh things as a whole.

But then God says now you've entered into a relationship with me and you can't worry about what people have done to you. What about our relationship and how are you growing in my experience? But yeah, Gigi, you're right. Sometimes we can't be right and righteous. It is truth and love as you mentioned, right? So I I I just wanted to share that because I I'm I'm seeing a lot of it regardless. It's not just about church, it's about any debate, any topic. If somebody disagree with with you, I I want you to take the time to see how you respond.

And I want you to see, take the time to see how your brothers and sisters respond when when when when clashes of ideas and ideologies and worldviews come into play. I'm just curious. And then are we humble enough to say, "Lord, it was an it was my pride, right, that got in the way?" Because pride separates the soul from God. I had this discussion the other day and and and we was talking about the LGBT community and uh uh and and she was like, "Well, is this a sin?" And and we had this intense conversation and I said, "You know what God hates the most?"

And I had to go show her the Bible reference and I said, "What does God call an abomination? He says pride is an abomination." But we have thought that a group of people who have a different lifestyle than us are more sinful than we are when God calls pride an abomination before him. Yet we still possess pride in our own hearts. And that is a thing that separates us from God. But yet we can judge other people for how they look different, think different, and are different. But yet we never correct our daily habits and remove the pride that is separating us from God.

I'm going to try to finish this quote. It's a lengthy one. But let him that that thinkketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. Peace and rest will come to you as you bring your will into subjection to the will of Christ. So how do we receive peace and rest saints? When we submit to the will of God in our lives for that day and how we respond in that moment in whatever particular situation, do we have trust? Do we have faith or do we not? Then the love of Christ once we submit to the will, right?

We then receive the peace and and and rest that God promises to that we will receive if we comply to his plan. Then the love of Christ will rule in the heart bringing into captivity the savior notice this the secret springs of action. God wants to reveal to you his secrets. He wants to to reveal to you his master plan not only for your life but how you can be a vessel to those you come in contact every single day. Do people know who you know in in in your personal relationship with God at work and into your in your interactions at church and and and and family functions or wherever it is that you're interacting with people on a daily basis.

The h the hasty easily aroused temper will be soothed and subdued by the oil of Christ's grace. We're talking about the Holy Spirit. The oil of Christ's grace soothes and subdues the very pride of our lives. And if we submit that pride to God and seek meekness and humility and we find ourselves saying, God, I want to follow. I want to be a man that follows after your own heart. The only way I can get there is if I possess the spirit of God's in my life. Notice this. The sense of sins forgiven will bring that peace that passes all understanding.

I'm going to conclude here. It's 30 minutes. I know we got cut short because of the technical difficulties, but I want to leave it. I want to leave it here. I want to leave it here. We're going to pick this up next week. We have to pick this up next week, right? I think too many of us think that we are right when in reality we all wrong. And just as that song articulated beautifully, God, don't give up on me yet. Because the truth of the matter is, there are things about myself that I'm not even aware of.

And I cannot base my experiences on the past to think that it will prepare me for today when today will bring me new challenges, new beasts, new new tests, new trials. I can't worry about tomorrow because tomorrow is not promised. So today as this person is commenting on my Facebook post as I'm tweeting ideas and thoughts as as I'm interacting and and I'm seeing that people are not uh accepting the messages that I'm sharing or people have a differing thing of opinion how am I responding am I showing and revealing humility and meekness or am I being triggered and am I projecting the things that hurt me I want to make sure that the other person hurts as well.

There is there is danger when we think that we are standing but God says don't think that you are standing on your own accord because you can easily fall. Pride cometh before a fall. So if we want to experience peace and rest, we have to submit our will to God's will for this day at this moment in this situation in this trial in this perplexity. Are you following? And then as God as you submit to God, then he whispers his plan of action. Saints, that's beautiful. Like he whispers the plan of action.

Take a deep breath. I know the tires blew out on your car, but I have a plan. And before you get worked up and you start saying you cursing out everybody in the tire shop and and you kicking the car and you forget about the reason why I blessed you with this vehicle, I just need you to take a deep breath. Control what you can control. What is it that you can control? Okay? Do I got AAA? Do I got this? Do I have a phone call? And God is going to guide you through the secret springs of action that you need to take at that moment as you surrender your will in that moment to God.

That temper is soothed. Why? Because I allow the Holy Spirit to work in this moment. The senses of things that I've done in the past or in that moment where I was at first angry and upset, God says that's forgiven. Initially, you reacted wrong, but you allow the Holy Spirit, my Holy Spirit to work in you and in this situation. And now, don't worry about what just happened. Here's peace that passes all understanding. And that trial that you're going through becomes a testimony. That test becomes a testimony.

That trial now becomes a stepping stone to the victory that God says that you and I can have. Saints, is that the experience that you and I want to have with God? Because I can testify that that's what he has done with me. I'm still a work in process. And just like Chandler Moore sung that song, don't give up on me yet. I got new scars. Just last week, I had to play this song because I felt overwhelmed with life. I had to I had to ask my therapist. I was like, I might be going through a midlife crisis.

But there was just a lot of burdens that I did not surrender to God. But after having a conversation and understanding, okay, why is it that I'm uh barring in the stresses of tomorrow when God only gave me today? I can't worry about what happened yesterday. What do I have? God has blessed me with this. Let me use what I got. And as soon as I started complying to the plan of God, all of a sudden, all my stresses have passed away. All of a sudden, I got clarity of vision. Everything started clicking.

Everything that God needed me to do, it was getting done. Where it was a hold up for the last month and a half, all of a sudden everything just flowing. Why? Because I took the time to say, "Okay, God, I'm I'm doing it my way. I need you to do it for me. What do I need to do? How should I respond in this situation?" He says, "You need to be honest with yourself. You you're still dealing with your insecurities. You're still dealing with your abandonments. the these these concept that you are leaning to those vices, whatever it may be.

You're leaning onto it because you're entering into a new space that you've never entered into. And I need you to give yourself grace, but I need you to trust me in this area. Can you do that? I trust you. I trust you. And I'll have that honest conversation with the person I needed to have that honest conversation with and make men whoever I need to make men. And all of a sudden, that peace that passes all understanding came into my mind. clarity of thought and everything started falling into place.

Why? Because God started speaking his secrets of springs of action to me. Why? Because I submitted to his will. So if it's your desire and Gigi, that's a good question. Please post it in the um in the mighty networks and I'm going to respond to it by the end of this weekend. By the end of this weekend. That's a very good question. I like those verses as well. But I want to leave it here. How many of us is our desire to say, "God, I I need to submit and remove the pride from my heart. I cannot do it on my own strength.

I need you to do it for me. And I come to you with humility of heart and meekness. And I ask that the Holy Spirit may do a work in me that I cannot do it myself." If that is your desire, ask that you may put a one in the chat. And we're going to conclude with a word of prayer. We're going to conclude with a word of prayer. And and I really want to encourage as I'm waiting for the responses via the chat, I I just need one person to accept that. Amen. Hallelujah. We got one. Um I really have a passion for young people, y'all.

I really have a heart for this generation that is behind me because I realize that we have a very unique position to reveal to them the legacy that has been given to us and the experiences that we've gone through and the victories that we have obtained. We can pass that down to be honest and transparent about our struggles that have led us to victories. Notice I didn't just leave it as struggles, but those struggles that have led us to victories. And so this is why I want to create this safe place because many of us are not even being honest of where we're at.

And as a result, we're losing people because people know that they're going through things, but they can't identify with it because there's no one else admitting that they are dealing with the same thing. So, praise God that I see um those requests. Yeah, brother Tennessee, you're right. It's hard for young people to hear about anything in regards to the three angels message when us as a church do not show um true love to them. They can care less about the three angels. You're right. And the first angel declares the glory of God, which is the literally the character and the love of God.

And yet we have not experienced that in our own lives. But we want to herald the third angel and we want to talk about Babylon falling and all of these empires. But yet, we haven't even heeded to the first command in Revelation 14 where it tells us to fear God, to enter into a relationship with him and to know who he is truly. He is a God of love. That is my email. If you have any questions, any thoughts, any testimonies, please share it there. And uh we're going to conclude with a word of prayer.

And I just want to thank you uh so much guys. Um Patrica, Patrice, what's good, girl? How you doing? I see Indie inspire. I'm going to see you alumni weekend. We'll talk soon. But let us conclude with a word of prayer. Invite the Holy Spirit to seal the decision that we have made tonight. Let us pray. Father, thank you so much for your love, grace, and your mercy. Thank you for the songs. Thank you for the study. Thank you for the reminder of why we need you daily. Today, we need you. We need your spirit today.

We need your meekness and humility. But Lord, in order for us to experience the peace that passes all understanding, in order for us to truly be humble, in order for us to truly experience weakness and to reveal your character of love to those we come across and to be honest with ourselves is Lord, we need that pride to be removed. We need to be corrected in the areas where we realize that it's not always about other people, but sometimes it's us as well. We want to consent to your plan today so that way we can live out the greater picture and the greater purpose that you have for us in our lives.

Thank you for the experience that I had the last two weeks that had led me to this point in time. I I thank you so much for the songs that you have blessed us with to re to to help us through the difficult times and journeys that we experience. And more importantly, I thank you so much for the young people and the people who are watching now who has uh made a decision by putting one in the chat and saying, "God, we need to remove the pride from our lives. We need to be honest and truthful with ourselves and ask for meekness and humility."

And so, Lord, you will honor that request, but we must first consent. And as a result of consenting, then we'll find the peace. Then you promise that you will whisper us what we must do in those very difficult trying moments. Thank you so much for hearing but most importantly answering our prayer for we ask this in Jesus precious and holy name. Amen and amen. We will see you guys next week Thursday. I know there will be a pause for one week as uh we will be celebrating alumni weekend um for my alma mater Oakwood University.

I believe it's next week. If it's not next week, it's the following week, but we'll give an update. Please, by all means, um, follow us on Mighty Networks. You can follow me on social media, Instagram, as well as, uh, Facebook. It is Lwami Richardson. If you just type that into the search bar, my name should pop up. But there's my email address. If you guys have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out. Until next week, may God bless. Peace.