We are back. I hope you are starting to connect. Sorry about those technical difficulties. Um, and I know this wouldn't be the first time we have technical difficulties. So, put a one in the chat if you're back with us. Uh, we're going to do another prayer. Um, because maybe you didn't even hear the first one. So, um, if you're back, I hope you're all back. I hope you click that new link. So, if you're back with us, uh, put one in the chat so that I know you're back with us. Um, but I am going to pray again because it's maybe you guys didn't even hear my first prayer.

So, I'm going to go ahead and pray. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for all your blessings and we're just thankful because we do have this technology and there's people who are joining this broadcast from all kinds of places and we ask you to be with us. We ask you to bless this program and that we know that there's an enemy that doesn't want it to go out, but we ask you to bless it and that everything we learn may be for um for your glory and honor. Help us to take better care of our bodies that are the temple that you have given us.

In Jesus name we pray. Amen. Yes, we have one. Great. Thank you so much for joining us again and we apologize for those technical difficulties that you know happen. Uh you're probably used to some to them some of you maybe because they happen they happen. Uh but I am so happy that you have joined us and I wanted to tell you when uh when this started happening I was going to tell you that um this title came to me because I was wondering what to say you know I was actually praying about what to you know what what would be the next topic uh and that day when I was actually praying about it I happened to hear a podcast with this very title Um, okay.

Perfect title. Thank you. Thank you guys for that answer because um that was a very captivating title to me. Is sugar a poison? Uh, and but you know, you're probably thinking, of course, sugar's a poison. But I'm not going to give you the answer because maybe the answer is depends. Maybe there's some nuances to that. We'll see. Okay, we'll find out. But before we get started, as you probably know already if you've joined us before, this is not meant to be uh any kind of treatment for any kind of um any kind of health uh kind of condition or anything else like that.

We want you to just be educated. This is educational. So that's important. And number two, I want you to know for those of us who are church members of the 7th Adventist Church that I always use the Bible first of all as a rule and I go by Isaiah 8:20. I hope all of you know that by now if you didn't before the to the law and the testimony. So I try to always be in complete harmony with the Bible and the spirit of prophecy. Bible and the spirit of prophecy. Uh and of course the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.

And when it comes to health, I've already, you know, said this many, many times. I really really um hope that some of you are already reading some of these books if you haven't before. Councils on diet and food and ministry of healing. I hope that my I see sometimes that my even my uh image is kind of slowing down. I hope that uh I hope that I'm not like I out of synchrony like the other time I I saw my video was out of synchrony for a while but I'm I hope that my image is coming out okay. Anyway, also scientific evidence because even the spirit of prophecy has told us that science is important and we need to be credible especially when we're talking about uh these things to people who are not uh believers.

We need to be credible because they might not take the Bible and spirit of prophecy uh as something that uh is of importance to them. So we need to be able to speak to them in a way that they will respect. uh ministry of healing is such a blessing. Yes, thank you Michelle. Thank you for for for sharing that with us. But I just want you to see these two very important quotes for me. Anyway, it says, "An knowledge of science of all kinds if is power and advanced science should be taught in our schools as preparation for the work that is to precede the closing scenes of the earth's history."

In other words, right now. And the bottom uh says a practical knowledge of science of human life is necessary in order to glorify God in our bodies. So I really hope that you appreciate that I show you some of the uh scientific evidence when I present that material. And look at this these verses or well the first quote uh um from uh selective messages says God wants us to have common sense. He wants us to reason from common sense. And look at the Bible in Matthew 16:10. It says to be wise, wise, wise as serpents.

The heart of the prudent acquires knowledge. The wise seeks knowledge. Okay. I I show this every time because I just think it's very very important. All right, let's go ahead and get started. So, is sugar actually a poison? Is it really? Well, okay. So, now do we get started with the really interesting stuff because well, of course, sugar when we talk about sugar, what are we talking about when we talk about sugar? Because it could mean so many things, right? First of all, let's talk about what we think mostly that sugar when we think of sugar, we usually think of white sugar, table sugar, the white stuff that is in these processed foods, foods that contain sugar, pancakes.

Oh, but also hidden sugar. We'll talk about this in a little while. Okay. Uh for like ketchup. What? Ketchup. Ah, well, I'll show you. Yes, some bread sometimes have sugar. Spaghetti. Sometimes we're even talking about processed white flour because it acts like sugar. But you know what I have to tell you? I have to have to tell you this. I have been to I have been to many many countries. many countries and I've been to the Adventist churches in many many countries and I have been to churches where SDA you know experts uh whatever people who teach health are telling sometimes people that we should not eat sugar or fruit that we should not eat fruit because it has sugar.

I don't know if you any of you have heard this. Sometimes people are told they shouldn't eat fruit. What about fruit? What about the sugar in fruit? What do you think? Now I'm presenting to you right here. I think this is useful to see the difference between the sugar in fruit and the sugar in industrially produced uh I would say food like products because sometimes I would say they're not really food. They're these products that call themselves fruit food uh food. They're not food. So, the sugar in industrial products contain much more sugar and fat than any vegetable and there's no nutritional value.

You see that, right? By the way, these products over here that you see on your right hand side, look at this. Oh, you've heard this before. Thank you for that. I don't know how you say your name. Pasi. Pinasi. Nice name. Look at this on the right side. sugar and fat together. That's something that characterizes a lot of these industrial products, highly processed products. The sugar and the fat are together. Now, let's think of this because what? Now, look at the uh left side of your screen. There's fruits.

There's avocado. Look at that avocado. Now, avocado is not high in sugar, is it? It's high in what? It's not sweet. If you taste it just like that by itself, it's not really sweet. Now, by the way, I've been to Brazil. Brazil is a wonderful country, by the way. They have awesome food. But in Brazil, they don't put their avocado on the salad usually or on their tacos or whatever. They they make they blend it. They use it for smoothies. They use it as a fruit, you guys. But it has a neutral flavor.

It's not really sweet if you think about it. But it's high in what nutrient? You haven't told me yet. I'll just tell you then. It's high in fat as you know. But what I want you to notice here in nature, you usually don't fight sugar and fat together. You don't find sugar and fat together. Fruits are usually high in fats like avocados, nuts, seeds, or high in sugar like most fruits. Healthy fats are absolutely healthy. You know why it's healthy? Number one, because it's not saturated, highly saturated.

Number two, because it has the fiber in it. All the fats that God has made for our consumption already have the fiber in it. All the fats that God has made for our consumption have fiber. Why? Because when the fiber is mixed with the fat, that fiber actually hangs onto the fat. We don't absorb all of the fat. That fiber hangs onto the fat. Also, the glucose, by the way, cholesterol. And the fiber, as you know, I hope you know, is actually not digested. Did you know that fiber is not digested? Therefore, it goes through your intest, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, colon, whatever, bloom boom, out your body.

And it takes with it some of that stuff, too. That's why it helps to lower cholesterol because it the cholesterol hangs onto the fiber, out the body. Not all of it, but a lot. You see, that's why it's important to always eat the sugar with the fiber, the fat with the fiber. Does that make sense? I hope it does. Anyway, what the point I'm trying to make, industrial products have the sugar and the fat together. The fiber in or I'm sorry, the fat and the sugar in the fruit are not together, are separate.

Very important distinction. Anyway, I've gone to these kind Yes, that's good to know. Thank you, Cassie. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyway, I've gone to churches. My friends, I've gone to churches where people are being taught they sometimes for some period of time, but sometimes it's a long period of time. So, I just want to show you, okay, just to be clear on this, I just want to leave this to you. You make your own judgments. But I want to present these to uh if our producer can move my Well, I guess I can read it from my own um my own uh my own slide.

Okay, look at Okay, thank you. Thank you to our producer. Look at uh the first quote there. It says the use of sugar. Well, this we're going to talk about sugar first. Okay. So what does um the inspired pen of the uh spirit of prophecy tell us about sugar? Look at this. The free use of sugar in any form tends to clog the system and is not unfrequently the cause of disease. Far too much sugar is ordinarily used in food. Cakes, sweet puddings, pastries, jellies, jams. Oh my goodness, even back then were used a lot.

And these are active causes of indigestion, especially harmful of the custards with puddings in which milk, eggs, and sugar. Oh my. Eggs have fat, milk has fat. Put them with sugar. And there are the chief ingredients. The use of milk and sugar taken together should be avoided. Whoa. All right. Now, let's look at these quotes. [Music] Now, it's talking about fruit. Oh, look at those beautiful pictures. Don't they look yummy? By the way, look at the colors. Do they look attractive to you? As humans, we can see in all colors.

Carnivore animals. I'm saying the word carnivore because a lot of people are eating that kind of diet nowadays. Carnivore animals like lions and cats do not see all the colors. We as humans do. We are designed to eat these fruits. The Lord desires to The Lord desires those living in countries where fresh fruit can be obtained during a large part of the year to awake the blessings that have they have in this fruit. The more we depend upon the fresh fruit just just look at that just as it is plucked from the tree.

In other words, in its most uh fresh, in its most natural state, the greater will be the blessing. The bottom quote says, "It will be well for us to do less cooking." Ah, it's not great. Less work, less cooking, more raw foods. Not all raw, but less cooking. Less cooking. And to eat more fruit. And it's what now? And it's what? in its natural state. Ah see in its natural state not processed. Let us teach the people to eat what now? Freely freely. Not constrained not you know uh oh yeah only eat one one grape today and two grapes tomorrow.

No no no no no. freely of the fresh grapes, apples, peaches, pears, berries, and all other kinds of fruits that can be obtained. So, I hope that's kind of clear. I hope that is kind of clear. But let's go back then to why. So, I want to show you because I there's so much confusion, guys. There's so much confusion. This study here talks about fructose. Some Okay. Does that include dried fruit? Oh, great question, Harriet. Thank you, Harriet. Thank you for that because that's a excellent question.

All right. What about dried fruit? Is Okay. So, see, is that in its most natural state just as plot from the tree? Let's go back to that. You see how it says right here uh where was it? Okay, the b the top the more we depend upon the fruit just as it is plucked from the tree. That means with all its water content once you dry it up the fruit shrinks. So then it decreases in volume. So you can definitely eat more of it without realizing. I don't know if that makes sense to you. The sugar is more concentrated.

Absolutely, Harriet. Yes, the sugar is more concentrated. You tend to eat more of it without necessarily realizing it. Uh and also, you know, the bottom um the bottom quote says, "It would be well for us to do less cooking and eat more fruit in its natural state." And dried up is not necessarily its most natural state. Now I will say having said that I will say to you that if you're going to sweeten something dates are probably your best choice and it is a dried fruit. Dates are really nutritious.

So if you're going to use dried fruit, use it moderately because it is higher in concentration of sugar than regular fruit. uh but it would be your second choice. Your first choice is the fresh fruit. That's my opinion. So, but it's a awesome question. So, thank you. Thank you for asking that. Now, when people talk against fruit, they usually mean fructose. Oh, fructose is not used like glucose. It's true. Fructose is not used like glucose for energy. It goes straight to your liver. It becomes fat.

Yes. But look at what this study says. Industrial. Are you looking at the title? Please look at the title. Industrial. You're welcome, Harriet. Industrial. Not fruit. Are you looking at I hope you're looking at the title because it's couldn't be any clearer. industrial not fruit fructose intake is associated with the severity of liver fibrosis liver damage. So what kind of fructose again the bananas the mangoes the plums the apples the grapes? Absolutely not. What's industrial fructose, you guys?

What is industrial fructose? We're talking about if you have any soda in your house. I hope you don't, but if you do, you can go and look at it. Look at the ingredients. You most likely will find industrial fructose, otherwise known as high fructose corn syrup. That's industrial fructose. So, um I put right here down at the bottom a part of part of the of the um text in this study that kind of tells you more or less what I the point that I wanted to bring out. And it says the deletterious effect of fructose was limited to industrial fructose with no evidence for negative effect of what?

Fruit. fructose. No evidence for negative effect of fruit fructose. Next time anyone tells you, "Oh, we can't eat too much fruit because show them this." The apparent inconsistency might be explained by the positive effects of other nutrients. Like what? Like what? What's in parenthesis right there? fiber and antioxidants in fresh fruit. In industrial food, in industrial food, the glucose present in the high fructose corn syrup might even accelerate fructose absorption, making industrial sugars much more unhealthy.

Whoa! My goodness gracious. Couldn't be any more clearer. Does the sugar turn into alcohol? Yes, sugar does turn into alcohol. That is true. Yes, that is true. That's how alcohol is actually made. Whoa. Crazy. This is insane. Okay. I hope you guys are taking pictures. Well, I'll send you the the PDF so you can have it. Okay. All right. Now, look at this. Sugar, uric acid, and the ideology. Ideology is the cause of beginning. How how diseases start. Okay. How be how a disease starts. Ideology of diabetes and obes.

What's the number one thing over there? What's how does it start the title? What does it say? And I'm putting right there. I'm highlighting what I really want you to get out of this out of this study particularly. I mean, we can be talking about all of these studies forever, but I just wanted one take out, a point, something to take home with from these studies. And it's this. We found, for example, that whereas fructose from what? Fructose from added sugars is associated with hypertension. In this case, this is an example.

Fructose from natural fruits is not. You see that? Another example. Another example. Fructose from added sugars is associated with hyp hypertension and fructose from natural fruits is not. I want to show you something else you guys. Because when we're talking about fruit, somebody asked, okay, what about dry fruit? So, there's ways to actually change natural fruit, right? So, there's actually ways to process fruits in in your house. So, what if you make apple juice in your house? That's still natural, isn't it?

Or what if you blend it? What if you make smoothies with it? Well, I just want to show you something so you know. We We need to just be aware of this. In this study that I'm going to show you, they actually did compare those three things. I know this is kind of hard to look at. I'm sorry, but it I just need to show it to you so that you are aware. Sorry about the graphic, but the graphic is the only thing that will explain this point. There's the apple. The top line in the graphic is the whole apple.

If you eat a whole apple, what this graph is showing is that your sugar as you see in the uh the line or you know the the words on the left of this graph are basically showing the glucose going up. So what this graph is showing first is that the glucose goes up after you consume the apple. That's what that's why the graph is going up first. Is the sugar in your blood going up. All right? And then it comes down as it should as it should. And what you see at the bottom is minutes. That's the time that passes after you eat the apple.

So it your sugar naturally goes up and then it comes down as it should and it notice how it comes down to the same level as it was before more or less as it should. Now the second line down right under apple is basically apple smoothie if you will. It's blended apple. Okay. It's like apple sauce. It says puree. You I don't know if you could see the actual letters, but it says puree. Apple sauce. Doesn't have added sugar. It's just pureed apple. Applesauce. I want you to notice the difference. Now, the sugar does go up also as it should when you eat the pureed apple.

But when it comes down, notice the difference. When it comes down, the applesauce makes the sugar come down lower. Do you see that? The blended apple makes the sugar come down lower than regular apple. The bottom line of the three lines, the the the one that's lower, the lowest is juice. What's the difference between puree and juice? Apple juice has zero fiber. Okay. The puree, you don't take out the fiber. It's like a smoothie. It's like a blended applesauce, whatever. It still has some fiber, but the fiber has been disrupted.

Okay, that's the difference between regular apple like you chew with your own teeth. Your teeth are not like a blender. You will never blend with your teeth. Now, your stomach will do some of the work, but that's your stomach, not your teeth, the uh blender will blend it much more efficiently. Now the difference, but what I want to say is also that once you blend it, you disrupt the fibers. The bottom line is the juice. The difference between the juice and the the blended apple is that the juice has zero fiber.

Okay? You put it through an extractor. You extract the fiber. And look at how much lower. Do you see that bottom line? the the sugar your blood sugar this we're talking about blood sugar it goes all the way down much lower than what it was at the beginning we are causing hypoglycemia do you all know what that is hypoglycemia your blood sugar is going way down because that sugar so what's happening here why is your sugar going down so low the lack of fiber I or the disruption in the case of the applesauce by itself without anything else.

Okay, we're eating the pure applesauce without anything. Usually that doesn't happen. You usually eat the applesauce with something else. But if you're drinking the apple juice by itself, especially, there's nothing to stop that sugar from going right in. No fiber, no nothing. It goes right in. It gets absorbed directly into your bloodstream. that causes uh an insulin response very fast and the insulin makes the blood sugar go down very fast, very low and you're causing hypoglycemia and therefore now so what's happening is that your your body is responding with a lot of insulin, a lot of insulin and that's not normal.

You don't want that all day long. You're going to be having too much insulin all day long. that can be pro-inflammatory and can lead to um in metabolic diseases and weight gain and all kinds of issues. We don't want to disrupt or eliminate the fiber from our foods. Therefore, yes, fruit is good, but in its most natural state, the less we disrupt it, the better. There's one ex exception to this rule. The blending does not seem to um alter so much in the case of berries because they've done studies with blended berries and they don't actually have that effect.

In fact, uh, with this particular study, they actually fed people slices of wheat bread or rye bread, and they measure how much their glucose went up just with the bread. And then they actually fed them the bread plus blended berries. And the blended berries instead of making the sugar go up higher, they actually prevented the sugar from going as high as what it had gone up with the bread. So the sugar went up lower with the bread and the berries that with the bread alone. So the berries actually made the sugar go up lower, which is very interesting.

So berries are the exception at least with that what of what all the fruits that have been studied. I guess berries have this sort of negative effects in in the case of blood sugars going up. So that's pretty good to know. Uh can that cause diabetes? Ask Lewis if you do it a lot. Yes. Like if you're constantly uh drinking sugary drinks particularly uh sodas for instance and that leads to weight gain. All of this extra calories and extra sugar will convert to fat and that will that might anyway lead to uh insulin resistance uh which can then lead to pre-diabetes which can then lead to diabetes.

Yes, it can eventually become diabetes possibly. That is possible. Okay. I also wanted to show you um another thing with the berries. Uh this one is also with berries where they showed um something very similar because in this case they didn't even feed people um bread. They actually gave them sugar water you guys. And with the sugar water, they found something similar than what they did with the with the bread. And so what you see up here, I'm sorry for these these graphs. They look so technical.

They look graphy, right? But what I just want to say the following the the triangle you see and it says reference where you see the triangle. Wherever you see a triangle, it means sugar water. Triangle means sugar water. So what you see here is that with the sugar water, the blood glucose that's on the the graph on the left, the blood glucose went up and then really down. Same as what we saw before with the apple juice. But if you if you give people sugar water and then you give them blended berries, the the blood sugar doesn't go up doesn't go down so low.

So it's what we saw just before with the bread, right? So the sugar doesn't go that you don't cause when you give people the berries. What you see on the right is very interesting you guys because if you look at the uh the label on the graph it says fatty free fat free fatty acids. That's fat. That's fat in the blood. If you give people sugar, sugar alone, the triangle, I don't know if you can see this at the end towards the 80 minutes, the 120 minutes. Do you see this all the way to the right? How the triangle line goes up higher than the other two?

That's because there's more fat in the blood of the people who are drinking sugar water. Do you think that can happen if you're drinking soda? Do you think that can happen if you're drinking juice? You bet it can. Therefore, if you're drinking soda or sugar drinks or whatever, they could be they you could be releasing fat into your blood. That's what's happening in this case. But with the berries, it's not happening. Interesting. Interesting. Interesting. Interesting. Interesting. Okay. Anyway, so after seeing all of this, I'm going to ask you a question.

Be ready to answer, you guys. Okay, are are you ready? My question to you is, oh, sorry, the animation didn't work. The answer came up. I should have put it in a different slide. I forgot that this isn't a PowerPoint presentation necessarily. It's with the um it's with the P with this different program. Okay, never mind. So, uh is the sugar from fruit a poison? What do you think? Well, I put the answer already. Never mind. I put this answer as no because as you can see, the sugar from fruit is different, isn't it?

I think I've showed you enough evidence. I hope I have. Put a one in the chat if you think I put enough evidence that the sugar from fruit is completely different from industrial sugar. Oh, by the way, we're talking about fructose. So, let me just reward that. Let me just re say that again. Put a one in the chat if you have been convinced. I hope so. That the fructose from fruit is totally different than the fructose from sodas or fructose from any highly processed fruit. Thank you. Yes. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you. If you need to show this to anybody, feel free to show it. I will send you guys the PDFs. You can show this video again and again because it's totally different. The fruit that the the sugar that God put in fruit is healing to us. Yes. Thank you, Louis. The Bible tells us we can eat fruit. Yes. Absolutely wrong. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you guys for putting all those ones. Absolutely. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. I think God has given us the best food and he put he put the medicine in our food.

All right. But the question now is, what about refined sugar? What about refined sugar? Is that good for us? Bad for us? Is it poison? What do you think? Is refined sugar good? Bad? Poison? Is poison like an exaggerated a word? I don't know. All right. Well, let me show you something very interesting. Okay, let's start talking about actually sugar. Sugar, okay, white sugar. Could it either sucrose, which is this, you know, like the stuff you put, you know, when you're making a pie, or high fructose corn syrup, which is more like the industrialized fructose that are in all the industrial stuff that you buy, like most of the stuff you buy at the supermarket, you guys, is fructose.

very very cheap sugar. That's why they put it there because it's cheaper than sucrose. That's why they use it. Bad bad you guys. Not good. Very bad. No, no, no. All right. Thank you. Okay. Let me show you something. This study talks about the liver diets and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Whoa. This is a this is this is becoming quite the epidemic nowadays you guys. I used to work at a clinic. I was seeing this is 15 years ago. It's not even now. I don't even work there anymore. 15 years ago I was seeing children children with their liver enzymes going up already with uh beginning stages of fatty liver.

Bad, bad, bad, bad. All right, let me show you uh this um illustration from this very uh study. It talks about the three ways in which you can get fatty liver disease. All right, there's the basically three ways and I want you to notice the three red arrows that go into the liver. Um, and so, okay, let's look at the one in the right. There's all these like yellow uh blobs that you see over here, and it says fatty acid released from adabos tissue. What does it mean? It means that if we carry excess body fat in our own bodies, if we have excess weight, in other words, that excess weight, that extra adipose tissue basically releases fatty acids, fat that goes into our liver.

So just being overweight in itself in and of itself is a a risk factor. All right? So having extra weight. The one over here in the middle says fatty acids from diet. All right. Fatty acids from diet. In other words, when we eat a lot a highfat diet, highfat diet, don't let anyone tell you that a highfat diet is good for you because that's the new thing everybody's talking about. Oh yeah, carbs are bad. Fat is good. Wait a minute. We just saw that fruit is actually good and it's a carb. Fructose is a carb.

But where does it come from? Oh, I'm gonna talk about honey. Thank you. I am going to talk about honey. I will tell you about that at the end towards the end. Okay. All right. But let's go back to fat. It's very clear here that high fat, eating high fat, the fat goes straight to your liver if it's in excess, of course, and if it's bad fat, because we already talked about the good fat. The good fat has fiber. Okay. But I want you to look at this the weird strange uh term over here on the left. What in the world does that is that denovo lipogenesis?

What is that? Denovo lipogenesis. Very weird term. I'll just tell you what it is. It's when the liver transform other things that are not fat into fat. So other things that are not fat, mainly sugar. It could be protein, but it's very hard to have excess protein. But it's very easy to eat excess sugar. So all that excess sugar, especially if it's fructose, because the excess glucose gets used up for energy. But you could eat you could have extra extra glucose if you're eating a lot of calories. Definitely you can have extra glucose.

But if you're eating a lot of fructose that is industrialized, that has no fiber, all of that is going straight to the liver. Straight to the liver. And guess what? It is converted into there's no way to store it. Is going to get converted into what? F A T F A Now later on this very study that I'm showing you this illustration I show you the title it says right here I highlighted it for you increased intake of carbohydrate not in the form of fruit it says sweetened beverages increases the risk of what?

Number one, obesity. Number two, type two diabetes. Metabolic syndrome is when you have high high cholesterol, high you know weight and uh in glucose in the body and glucose in the blood and hypertension. All of it together. That's metabolic syndrome. Fatty liver, cardiovascular disease, all of these things are connected. Like we talked about the first time we were together my first presentation we talked about how all of this is to comes together they're connected. Okay. Later on it talks about sucrose sweetened beverages.

You see that sucrose sweetened beverages increase increases visceral atapose tissue. That's the very dangerous fat that's inside that kind. You don't see it because it's not subcutaneous. Subcutaneous fat. You can actually touch it, right? You can actually grab it. That's not the most dangerous kind of fat you guys. It's the one around your organs. That's the visceral adapose tissue as well as liver fat accumulation. That's the that is what sweetened beverages is doing to you. Over here down at the bottom it says high consumption of fructose from what?

From mangoes, from grapes, from kiwis. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. From in the form of it says right here, high fructose corn syrup. Where are you going to find that? Just about every single product in the supermarket. Results in increased oxidative stress and insulin resistance. What's oxidative stress? We talked about it when we talked about cancer. I think you have to go back and look at it. is damage at the cellular level. Go look at it. Which are risk factors for what's NF? N AFD N Ald non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes.

Oh my goodness. I hope it's clear. I hope it's clear. I hope. Anyway, conclusion, sugar affects our bones. You bet it does. Yes, it does. Thank you, Rihanna. Rihanna. Okay, you guys. So, some diets have been linked to the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, notably notably in animal models. High fat. I I I couldn't show you anything more clear than this. Highfat and ketogenic diets. Don't let anyone tell you that a highfat, low carb diet is good for you. It's right here. A highfat diet will give you fatty liver.

A keto diet will give you fatty liver. It's right here. Show them this. It's right there. Nevertheless, down at the bottom. Okay. Nevertheless, based on current evidence, we who the experts on liver disease. That's we. Okay. That's who. We would recommend a diet. How? What does it say? Low in fat. Notably in what kind of fat? saturated fatty acids. Where are saturated fatty acids found? Where are saturated fatty acids found? Number one, all animal products, unless you take out the fat. So, okay, egg whites, fine, don't have the saturated fat.

Or skin milk, fine, doesn't have the fat. Everything else has the fat and it's saturated mostly. Number one source of saturated fat in the diet. Do you know it's not red meat? It's cheese. And actually, there's a higher source of saturated fat that is not even animal. It's coconut oil. Sorry to tell you that, but it's highly saturated. It has twice the percentage of saturated fat than lard. You can use it on your skin or eat the coconut with the fiber. notably in saturated fat and low in refined carbohydrates.

You don't have to eat low fruit, low in refined carbohydrate, notably by reducing what? What exactly? What are we talking about? soft drink consumption in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which just about everybody nowadays has at least the beginnings of, as these nutritional factors may play a pivotal role in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Butter. Yes, thank you. Butter. Butter. Very saturated fat. Absolutely. Okay. Now when we talked about my first presentation, 10 days to better health, if you want to look at it, you can see we talked about insulin resistance and we saw that an insulin sensitive liver is a healthy liver, but an insulin resistant liver is a fatty liver.

Okay? Therefore, if you have insulin resistance, that leads to fatty liver. So, it's very much connected to insulin resistance. It's all connected. So, go back to that. Somebody asked about maple syrup. That's a very good question because it's I would say somewhat better than refined sugar, but it does not have the fiber. So, I would not eat it in high amounts. I would use it in small amounts. Um, it's a much more um I would say natural product. Comes from a tree. has some trace, you know, uh, nutrients.

So, I would use it, but in small amounts. Better than maple syrup. That's why I was saying probably the better one, better choice is dates because it actually has the fiber. So, you can make date paste, uh, chop the dates. There's actually date sugar out there, but that's a little bit more it's a little bit more processed. So, I would I would say buy the dates and make the date paste yourself. I think that's a better choice. That's my own personal opinion on that. All right, let's move on. I want to show you another important point here.

It talks about excessive intake of sugar. Obviously, it's talking about processed sugar here as well. But now it's not talking about fatty liver disease. It's actually talking about inflammation, which is a bigger word. is actually more comprehensive if you will. It uh encompasses more things because down here uh highlighted in this uh soft orange uh light orange color it says obesity, cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes. It's kind of like the same stuff we were talking about before.

So it kind of goes to show that they're all connected again. Um, and down here says consuming high levels of dietary hexos. That's just another word for sugar. Don't worry about that term. It's just sugar. But now it's talking about other kinds of diseases though. Look at this. It's talking about rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease. Now we're talking about like Crohn's disease and lowgrade chronic inflammation. Now we're talking about diseases that are more in you know the realm of autoimmune diseases where sugar can be also possibly connected of this inflammatory uh aspect of it inflammation.

Wow. Do fatty liver give symptoms? Maybe when it's advanced you can start maybe having uh some jaundice maybe but definitely it will appear first in the blood and might not have any symptoms. So if you're uh uh liver enzymes come out um that are not uh not normal abnormal. So I would definitely be checking you know and if your if your doctor is doing a comprehensive you know uh blood check uh blood examination they probably will find it before you have any symptoms honestly I think. All right look at this.

Yikes. Understanding the link between sugar and cancer. Now people always say sugar feed can feeds cancer. Well, it's not directly. It's not like directly feeding the cancer. It does kind of feed you but indirectly feeding the cancer. But there is a link. Okay. So there's a link between sugar and cancer because it says right here that high sucrose that's white table sugar basically and high fructose diets activates several mechanisms including inflammation. You see so it's like the the the sugar leads to um glucose and lipid metabolic pathways suggesting a causal link between excess sugar consumption and cancer development and progression that is independent of weight gain.

So there is a link there is a link between sugar and cancer. Uh so see how sugar is linked between uh there's a link between cancer and all these other diseases. Okay. I think there's one thing that's even in my view even worse. I don't know. It could be just as bad. I would think maybe it's just as bad in in my view it's worse. But I don't know what you think. maybe you'll think is just as bad, but it depends on the person, I guess. Look at all these foods. Some of them are sweet, like we have, of course, the sweetened drinks, cake, ice cream, but some of them are savory like pizza, burgers, whatever.

Right? So, what's what's in common with all of these uh foods? They're all highly processed, right? They're all highly or actually we would call them all maybe junk food, right? Interestingly though, all of these probably have sugar even though they're savory. And I want to show you something kind of worrying, scary almost, and it's this. It says study sugar. And look at that word right after That is sugar that is hidden. You see the the picture that they put here with the with this article. It's not even sweet things.

It's all savory stuff. But it says sugar. Sugar hidden where in junk food, you guys. Junk. Yeah, they're tasty. They're tasty. They make it tasty because these they put the sugar with salt and the fat usually don't they don't go together. Sugar hidden in junk food is what? Are you looking at the title? I hope you're reading the title with me. It might sound exaggerated, hyperbolic. Maybe I didn't say it. Sugar hidden in junk food. Sugars and everything. Yes. Is eight times more addictive than cocaine.

Sounds exaggerated, doesn't it? Hyperbolic. Maybe they're just putting that to kind of clickbait. Clickbait. Well, here's a study, you guys. Here's a study. You can just go and look for it. read it yourself. I'll show you what they did. By the way, I'm going to just kind of show you the picture of the researchers who did the study. You know what they did? By the way, here's a rat in front. Here's some Oreo cookies. Did you know Oreo cookies are vegan? Oreo cookies are vegan. Does the word vegan automatically translate to healthy?

Yes or no? Because a lot of people, a lot of people tell me, "Oh, such and such is vegan, but look at how unhealthy they are." Well, that's because vegan is not necessarily healthy. There's a lot of healthy or vegan things that are super unhealthy, like Oreo cookies. So, this is what these people did, okay? They took a bunch of rats and they made them. This I mean, it sounds terrible, actually. I think it's terrible how some of these animals are treated. It's true. They made them addicted to cocaine.

They made them addicted to cocaine. They were addicted. Once they were addicted, they put them in an enclosure, I guess, a cage or something. And there were two levers, one for the cocaine, which they were already addicted to. And they knew how to press the lever, it would release the cocaine. They were already trained to do that. On the other side, there was a lever that would release sugar. And so they were free to roam and go to each lever. Once they figure out the other lever had sweetened some kind of sweetened liquid or substance, they went to the sugar.

Even though they were addicted to the cocaine, they went over there. They went to the sugar. That's what happened. So, as you probably know, yeah, it is horrible. As you probably know, we have a dopamine pathway in your brain. You probably already heard about dopamine being this neurotransmitter that is associated with just about every single addiction. It is the neurotransmitter that help us helps us to feel pleasure. And you see that these neurons, you see these uh arrows that extend, the neurons are actually pretty long.

They actually extend the neurons themselves to different parts of our brain, including this front part called the frontal lobe and the uh parts of our brain that have to do with cognition. And so these parts of the brain have to do with cognitive control, with motivation, with inhibition. These parts of the brain get damaged with addictions and sugar stimulates them just as much as any other addictive substance. That's what they have found. I'm going to start um jumping around because I'm running out of time.

But I just wanted to show you this comparison you guys. Here on the left you see a normal brain and what you see in the red are what are called dopamine receptors. When a person starts to take in an addictive substance they produce excessive dopamine and this excessive dopamine starts to damage the brain. Therefore, the brain has to put on the brakes and has to lower the excessive dopamine. And what it does is that it reduces the amount of dopamine receptors to put on the brakes. Basically, it's too much stimulation and that is too much damage basically long term.

So the the what happens is that there is a um there is a reduction of these dopamine receptors. So what we see here in the middle is the brain of a person who's been using cocaine for one month. And what you notice here is that there is a reduction of the orange color. That means this person has less dopamine receptors. meaning they no longer feel pleasure with normal things. If they eat an apple, it's not pleasurable. If they hug a loved one, they don't feel pleasure. They only feel pleasure with cocaine.

Now, after four months, same thing. They haven't recovered. And I want to show you that the same thing could happen with sugar. In fact, they have found parallels with addiction and obesity. Addiction to drugs and obesity seem to have the same patterns. Is it possible that some people who are obese have a hard time losing weight because there as there's an actual substance addiction? Is it possible? Here's another comparison. There's a normal brain up up in the uh uh left corner top and you see the different brains.

There's a brain of an addicted person that's addicted to cocaine. The bottom right is an addict an alcoholic and the top right is an obese individual. Do you see how they all have a um lessening? There's less uh of these dopamine receptors. What is happening? What is happening? There's maybe an addictive process going on here. And in fact, these people who are producing these foods know very well what they're doing. You can look this up. Look up the term Bliss Point. All of these companies know what it is and they know it very well.

And they hire people called food scientists. They call they they're called food scientists. They study this and that's what they do. They make the products to be as attractive as possible. Perfect amounts of sugar, salt, and fat. So when you eat that one, you know, you open that bag of cookies, you eat one or you can't just eat one. You can't eat one potato chip. You cannot eat just one Cheeto or whatever. You can't. You have to eat half the bag. The concent the combination of fat and sugar appears to be especially powerful for the brain.

Yes. The bliss point refers to optimal combination of salt, sugar, and fat that triggers pleasurable taste sensation makes food irresistibly cravable. Absolutely. Thank you for giving us the precise definition of bliss point. All food manufacturer producers know exactly what it is. They use it. And all of these foods, people who have been addicted to both drugs and food, I've heard I've read an author who said who was actually addicted to drugs and then food once she overcame the drug addiction became addicted to food.

And she says it's way more difficult to overcome food addiction than drug addiction. You know why? Because once you leave the drugs, they're gone from your life. But what about the food? Everywhere you go, it's socially acceptable to consume it. And people push you. What? You're not going to have another You're not going to have a piece of cake. Come on. I made this pie. You got to taste it. What do you mean you're not going to have another one? Even at the church, when I go to the church, all kinds of churches where I go to, they have this beautiful buffet.

Please, no one get offended. I always tell people the churches where I go, please don't be offended. You have a wonderful healthy sometimes wonderful healthy food over here and over here you have the table. And when I say the table, they always know which table I'm talking about. The table, the other table. And it's the equivalent of heroin for some of us, myself included. I am a food addict, a sugar addict. It's hard. Some of you might relate. I don't know. But it's hard. It's like an alcoholic.

You put the beer in front of them. It's not easy, you guys. It's a struggle. Yes, it is a struggle. It's not easy when they put the equivalent of heron in front of you and push you to eat it. What? You're not going to have some? It's hard. Here are the uh most addictive foods. They've done this study using the Yale uh food addictive uh food addictiveness scale or whatever. Yale came up with that and other universities have done studies of the most addictive foods. Number one, pizza. Pizza has sugar.

You know where? Where's the sugar in the pizza? The sauce. The sauce has sugar. And of course, the white flour plus the cheese. That's a whole different thing. The cheese is addictive because of the casein. We talked about casein when we talked about uh cancer. We talked about, you know, the cancer thing, right? But we didn't even talk about the fact that casein once you ingest it becomes quesomorphine. Queso morphine. What does that sound to you? Anyway, you already know. Well, I don't know if you know how much sugar is on these uh terrible drinks.

Do you know that some of these drinks have up to 17 17 teaspoons? Would you ever put 17 teaspoons in coffee? Look at this. 15 teaspoons. You don't even realize how much sugar we're consuming because some of these drinks of course have sodium. So they, you know, you don't even realize how how much sugar there's in these. Okay, I want to end with this. This can be reversed. This addiction can be reversed. Praise God. Addiction can be reversed, you guys. With one of the eight principles of health. Did you know?

Did you know that one of the eight principles of health is the cure for addiction? I didn't know if you knew, but here it is. It's up in the top. brain recovery. So addiction is a brain disease. The brain is damaged is physically damaged with addiction. The person who's addicted no longer has the ability to, you know, to stay awake because the brain is damaged. This it's no longer a thing of um of will. They don't have the willpower. But the brain can recover. There's plasticity. And it says right there, brain recovery with prolonged abstinence.

The brain can recover, but only if you stay away from the addictive substance. Only if you Oh, come on. Once a week, it's okay to have a little bit in moderation. It won't hurt. No, no, no, no. When there's an addiction, moderation kills. When there's an addiction, moderation does not work. Never. Never, ever, ever. You cannot be moderate with an addictive substance. Therefore, you see on the left a healthy brain. In the middle, you see the brain with one month of abstinence. It's not quite recovered yet.

But on the right, do you see what happens after 14 months of abstinence? You see that the orange is starting to come back. The brain is starting to heal. Is starting to heal. Wow. Abstinence is one of the It's the same as temperance, right? or very close because temp real temperance is eating the good things moderately but staying completely away abstaining from the bad things. That's true temperance. All right. So to conclude, is sugar a poison? H is sugar a poison? Well, it depends what sugar you're talking about, right?

What sugar are we talking about? I'm not going to answer this uh quote directly. I'm going to read or I'm not going to answer this question directly. I'm going to eat read some quotes. So, we read this, right? Sugar clo clocks the system. It hinders the working living machine. I frequently sit down to the tables of brethren and sisters and see that they have great amount great amounts of milk and sugar. These clog the systems and irritate the digestive system and affect the what? Affect the what?

Oh my affect the brain. Anything that hinders the active motion of the living machinery affects the brain very directly. How does she know? And from the light given me, sugar when largely used is more injurious than meat. My goodness gracious. Sugar when largely used is more injurious than meat. My oh my. Yes. Because it's addictive. It's a drug. And you know what she talks when she what she says about meat? She says to stay away completely. By the way, if you look up some of the things she says about sugar, you might be confused.

If you look up LG white sugar, well, in some places she says, "Well, I use a little bit." Oh, no. Stay completely away. Oh, no. Well, you're you're going to get confused. And this is why. because she says let the diet reform be progressive. In other words, for some people the changes might have to be step one step at a time. So at the beginning she did some use some sugar and then later on she stopped and she made the changes progressively. All right. Okay. Let's talk about honey. I'm going to read some Bible verses to you.

Proverbs 14:13. My son, eat honey because it is good. The and the honeycomb which is sweet to your taste. All right, that's chapter 24. Chapter 25. Have you found honey? Eat only as much as you need, lest you be filled it filled with it and vomit. Huh? only a little bit then and then later on in the same chapter it is not good to eat too much or much honey right it's not good to eat much honey therefore eat it moderately eat it good but only moderately I use it you guys so I am technically not vegan because people who consume honey are technically not vegan so I'm not technically not vegan because I use honey I buy it from somebody who lives nearby my house who makes it.

So, it's local honey and I keep it only for when somebody is sick in my house if they have flu, cold, covid, any of those things. And I actually uh use about two tablespoons and I take the juice of about four lemons and I put about a quarter of a uh onion and about four or five cloves of garlic. blend it all and drink the, you know, well, not drink the whole thing, two or three tablespoons at a time every two hours. That seems to kill it. It's an antibacterial and antiviral because of the honey, the the whatchamacallit, the garlic and the onion.

But the honey has medicinal uh per medicinal capabilities because it actually helps the throat. So anybody who has cough or sore throat, the honey itself uh is very good for it. They in fact they've done actual studies where they have compared cough syrup and honey. The two have the same effect. So I do recommend it actually. All right, I will finish with this verse. 1 Corinthians 6:19 and 20 says, "Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own?

For you were bought at a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's." You should only use honey that has been tested. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Uh and also from age one and above never to a baby. Sugar is dangerous. Yes, sugar is dangerous. You cannot metabolize you. Sugar is very very dangerous. Um machines have manuals and the Bible is our manual, isn't it? Read yours. Thank you. White and refined sugar is dangerous very much. Sugar addiction is e easy to kick with 12 weeks.

Yeah. 12 weeks. In 12 weeks, like a 12st step. Is that what we're talking about? 12 weeks. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. With time you can do it. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. So, let me finish with uh giving you my web page in case uh someone here doesn't have it yet. Healthforday.net. Healthfor.net. I think some of you have already uh gone because you've sent me some messages through there. You can definitely contact me through my web page and if you haven't yet, you can download the 10day challenge that I have right there is a 10 day of um menu plus recipes.

The 10day Daniel challenge to eat whole food plant-based. Maybe I'll ask my uh producer to put me back on the screen. Maybe. There we go. All right. So, you can download it. Okay. Download the 10day and try it because it is good for you. If you haven't seen the 10 days to better health um the first presentation that I've done with um with true uh health Tuesdays, I recommend you watch it because it can really change your health. It can transform your life. I do it for my work all the time. So, I know it works.

So, if there's no more question, I love the health challenge. Thank you. Uh yeah, re-watch it. Yes. Thank you. Thank you for all your wonderful I will send the PowerPoint. I have sent all the PowerPoints. So, if you still haven't gotten yours of the previous messages, make sure you ask for the PowerPoints. Okay. So, we're going to end with prayer. Let's pray. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for the opportunity to do these programs true health Tuesdays and thank you for the wisdom that you have given us, for the information, the ability to know all this wonderful information about our bodies, how to better care for them.

The food that you have given us that is so wonderful. medicinal that has so many nutrients that help our bodies and thank you Lord for giving us the light through our health message. Help us to not only keep it to ourselves and improve our own health but help us to be tools, help us to be um help us to be ambassadors of your word and your health message. help us to take it to others who need it as well, who who might be suffering, who might benefit from this wonderful information and that maybe in through these messages might even get to know you, our healer, our God, our savior.

Thank you once again. Be with us the rest of this week until the Sabbath day when we meet again. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. And amen. Thank you again for being with us and we'll see you in two more weeks. I think we're going to start a series of di about diabetes. I have a lot of uh information about diabetes. In fact, our producer Gigi, she is the one who suggested that we do diabetes and I said, "I have four programs." She's like, "Yes, let's do diabetes." So, it's going to take us about a couple months to go through all of them.

So, tell your friends. We're going to do a series on diabetes. We're going to give first of all a um introduction that we're probably going to talk a little bit more about you know the underlying um condition that takes that causes diabetes and then we're going to talk about the best diet for diabetes. Then we're going to talk about the best exercise for diabetics and not just diabetics as you probably know because uh it's insulin resistance which is connected with all these metabolic diseases like hypertension, high cholesterol and obesity and fatty liver.

So anyone who is interested in any of those conditions should join and then we're going to talk about other lifestyle things you can do to prevent all of those things. So not just exercise and diet. And then at the end, we're going to conclude on how to make these changes because it's not easy as you probably know. How to, you know, incorporate new habits, how to have more self-control, that's hard, all of those things. So, it's probably going to take us about four or five maybe uh programs to do all of this.

So, invite your friends and thank you once again and God bless you. We'll see you in two weeks. Bye everybody. Thank you. And God bless you.