Why should I feel And why should the shadows come? And why should my heart feel lonely and long for heaven and home? When Jesus is my portion, a constant friend is he. his eyes on the sparrow and I know that he watches over me. Let not your heart be troubled. His tender words I hear and resting on his goodness I lose my doubt and fear though by the path he leadth. the sparrow. I'm happy and I sing because I am free. His eye is on I know I know. His eyes on I know way down in my heart that he's watching over you and me.

Amen. Happy Sabbath everyone. Um hopefully the link for the uh Living Mana channel aids back up as well as the Power of the Lamb channel. Um we're going to go ahead and just uh invite you again to share this link for uh people who may have uh got booted off and are trying to get back on. Please go ahead and share this link. Let your people know that the sermon is about to begin. And um we have a very special word. Um we have some special living mana today uh from the word of God. So I'm going to invite you to uh please pray with me uh as we seek God's face.

Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we ask in a special way, Lord, that you would please speak to your people today. Lord help us to see clearly to understand and Lord please minister to our hearts is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. I want to invite you to the screen. The title of the sermon is the good Samaritan. The good Samaritan. And we are going to be taking a journey through a very wellknown parable. The Bible tells us in the book of Luke 10 25, "Behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?"

And he said unto him, "What is written in the law? How readest thou?" And he answered and said, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself." I want you to just pause for one moment and understand here that this lawyer who is speaking is very familiar with the law. Um, I want you to note that he could have gone anywhere at all in the Old Testament. He could have mentioned a number of laws in the Old Testament or totaling over 600 laws in the Old Testament, but he narrows in on one particular law.

I want you to listen. Um, in Deuteronomy chapter 6 verse 5, we should say two laws, but notice Deuteronomy chapter 6 verse 5. The Bible says, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might." And again in Leviticus 19:18, "Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord." What I want you to understand here is that the lawyer who is speaking narrows in on the correct answer.

Jesus, as you will see, does not correct him and say, "No, no, no. You've got it wrong." We're going to see that Jesus literally says to him, in fact, I'll just go to the next verse, Luke 10:28. And he said unto him, "Thou has answered right. This do and thou shalt live." Verse 29, however, says, "But he willing to justify himself said unto Jesus, and who is my neighbor?" Who is my neighbor? And thus begins the parable of what we call the good Samaritan. Let's read this parable beginning in verse 30.

The Bible says, "And Jesus answered answering said, a certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among the which stripped him of his raignment and wounded him and departed, leaving him half dead." And by chance there came down a certain priest that way. And when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise, a Levite, a Levite, when he saw at the place, when he was at the place, I'm sorry, came and looked on him. All right. So, we're going to just switch microphones here.

Can you guys hear me now? Just put a one in the chat if you could hear me correctly now. All right, let me go ahead and read Luke 10:30 again. Jesus answered, "A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among these which stripped him of his reignment and wounded him and departed, leaving him half dead." And by chance there came down a certain priest that way. And when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him and passed by on the other side.

But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was. And when he saw him, he had compassion. So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, and sent him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denary, and gave them to the inkeeper, and said to him, "Take care of him, and whatsoever more you spend, when I come, I will repay you." I will repay you. All right, everyone. Um, welcome back. We apologize.

This is uh uh we were having some issues with the microphone, but again, uh we're going to go ahead and um pick up where we left off. In fact, I'm going to go back and read the parable again. So, uh, let's go back to the screen. Uh, put a one in the chat if you can hear me. Uh, should be no issues. Uh, yeah. Thank you, tech team. Thank you, tech team. And let's go to the screen. Luke 10 verse 25. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up tempting him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?

And he said unto him, what is written in the law? How readest thou? Then he and he answered, saying, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself. Um, I want you to note here Deuteronomy 10 6 verse uh chapter 6:5. The Bible tells us that this in fact is one of the commandments. It says, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might." Please note that this lawyer is very familiar with the law.

Um, in fact, out of 620 plus laws that he could have mentioned, he's he gets right to the very commandment that Jesus is going to commend him on it. He understands that the summary of the law is to love God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind. And then according to Leviticus 19:18, the Bible says, "Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord." And I want you to note that these are the two verses that the the lawyer literally is quoting from when he answered Jesus's question.

And I want you to take note of what this lawyer quotes. In fact, go back to the screen for a minute and I want you to note something that you may not have considered before. I'm going to read it again and I'm not going to point it out, but I want to read the text again which says, "Thou shalt not avenge neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord." I want you to note something here that that when the the the text goes on, in fact, let's go to the next verse. The Bible says in Luke 10:28, "And he said unto him,"Thou has answered right, "This do, and thou shalt live."

Jesus is telling him, you answer the cor the question correctly. You're right. Out of 600 plus laws, you name the two laws that I have nothing to add to. You summarized it well. The text goes on to say, however, but he willing to justify himself said unto Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?" Now, I want you to understand why why the the the lawyer goes on to ask this question. Why is he trying to justify himself? What what does the text mean? What is he trying to say? What is he trying to to suggest to Jesus?

How is he trying to justify and defend himself? If you go back to the text, and we're going to go back again one more time. Let's go back one more time. We're just going to go two verses back and let me read it again. Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people. the children of thy people. The children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. May I suggest to you that the lawyer understands that his neighbor only means the children of his people.

In other words, my neighbor is only those that are like me. My neighbor is only those who are among my people. Keep that thought in your mind as we go into the parable. In Luke 10:30, Jesus answered, saying, "A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raignment and wounded him. and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was.

And when he saw him, he had compassion. So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. and he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him. On the next day when he departed, he took out two dinary, gave them to the inkeeper and said to him, "Take care of him, and whatever more you spend when I come again, I will repay you." And then Jesus asked the question, "So which of these three do you think was neighbor to him who fell among thieves?" And he said, "He who showed mercy on him."

Then Jesus said to him, "Go and do likewise." Go and do likewise. The first thing that I want to address as we're looking at this parable is the question that the lawyer asked. It is a question that all of us ask. It is a question that is perhaps the most important question to everyone who is seeking salvation and the question was this what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Now that there are many things that are that are that are described. You know, to inherit eternal life, we need to do X, Y, and Z.

To inherit eternal life, this needs to happen. This needs to happen. This needs to happen. But I want you to note Jesus's own answer to the question when the when the the the the lawyer uh h says to him um uh love God with all your heart and love your neighbor as yourself. There is context to that. Why is the why is he asking what shall I do to inherit eternal life? We know that when man sinned uh death came into the world. Death came into the world. In fact, the Bible says in Romans chapter 6 23, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

In John 3:16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. So what the text is telling us here, what the ver two verses we just read is telling us is that sin results in death, but Jesus came into the world to show us the way to everlasting life. So there's no better person to ask than who this lawyer is asking when he says to Jesus, "What must we do? What must I do to inherit eternal life?" And when he answers, listen now.

When he answers, "Love God and love your neighbor," it almost seems to us like a cheap answer. like, "Yeah, well, yeah, well, well, that can't be, you know, just it. There's got to be something more. There's got to be something that that's added on to to this." But Jesus adds nothing. He He literally says to the lawyer, he said unto him, "Read this for yourself. Thou hast answered right. This do and you shall live. Now, now let me just pause for a second and I need to ask you the question. How many of you in seeing Jesus's own words where he says if you simply love God and love your neighbor you shall live.

Y'all put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat if that is good news to you. Put a one in the chat if you're like, "Whoa, Jesus just simplified this." Jesus just said to me, "If I love God with all that I have and I love my neighbor as myself, I will live. I will have eternal life." Meaning eternal life then is contingent upon whether we love God and love our neighbor. It's that simple. In fact, Romans 13 tells us, "Love workketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law."

Let me read it again. Love law. That word ill, it means harmfulness. It means injury. Love works no injury or no harm to its neighbor. Has anyone ever fallen ill. Put a one in the chat. Raise your hand if you have fallen ill before. May I suggest to you that when the Bible says here love workketh no ill to his neighbor that what it is actually saying is that sin if love works no ill to its neighbor then sin is illness and it's illness direct Is Satan working ill to Eve? A yes or no. Put it in the chat.

Is Satan working ill All right. Can you all see me? Can you all hear me? I'm not sure you guys what's going on. If it's the weather, um, but you're saying you see me, so all right, we're good. And you can hear me. When Satan is tempting Eve, he is working ill towards her. When the Bible says as it continues on uh for God does know in the day you eat thereof then your eyes shall be open and you shall be as gods knowing good and evil. What I want you to see here is that Satan works ill towards Eve and in turn makes her ill with sin.

When Eve gives the fruit unto her husband, she is working ill towards him and then he becomes ill with sin. So in other words, sin, if we can say this way, sin is the disrupting of a relationship between two parties. Sin is is when a relationship between two parties changes not for the better but for the worse. If I can say it this way, every one of us has a relationship with with our parents, with our siblings, with our neighbors, and even with people that we don't know. A and there is a proper context for every relationship.

husband and wife, parent and child, friend and friend, friend and and neighbor. Uh there are there are go there are parameters that keep a relationship safe. So when a when a man and woman are married, there is a context to their relationship. But when the context of their relationship changes, meaning the woman decides to have an illicit relationship with someone else or the man decides to have an illicit relationship, this is sin. Sin is when a relationship becomes illicit. It can happen not only between husband and wife, but it can happen with friends.

It can happen with people that you don't know. For example, if God says to love your neighbor, then the correct relationship with people who you know and people who you do not even know should be love. But when you run upon a stranger and the stranger does something that you don't like and you now get angry with that n with that with that stranger, you have defiled a relationship even with someone that you don't know. And that is what sin is. Love workketh no ill to his neighbor. Sin equals sickness.

Sin kills while love heals. That's what the Bible is trying to tell us. That's what God is trying to tell us. Sin does damage while love heals. So again, remember what this lawyer says. He willing to justify himself said unto his neighbor, said unto Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?" You guys, does this question sound familiar to you? I want you to think carefully with me. Does this question, who is my neighbor? He's talking to Jesus. Who is my neighbor? Does this question or the spirit of the question at all sound familiar to you?

I'm waiting for y'all. I'm waiting to see this in the chat. I'm waiting to see if you might be thinking of exactly what I am thinking of. And if you're not, let's just go there. Come with me to the book of Genesis, chapter 4, where Adam, Adam's two sons, Cain and Abel, have just had an unfortunate interaction. Cain has changed his relationship to his brother. He has altered or created an illicit relationship with his brother. Meaning where he was to love his brother, he now hates him. And we know the story.

Cain kills Abel. And when God comes to the garden look or when God comes to Cain looking for Abel, Abel or Cain asked the question, when God says, Cain, where is Abel, thy brother? He said unto him, I know not. Am I my brother's keeper? Who is my neighbor? Am I my brother's keeper? You see, am I my brother's keeper? Was the response of a murderer. And I want you to see what Jesus is getting to here, beloved. Because when this lawyer asks, "And who is my neighbor?" He is asking it in the same spirit as Cain.

You see what Jesus is trying to demonstrate here is that in the parable it seems obvious that the thief is the is the is the murderer. Of course, the man is not murdered. He's only left for half dead. But in the parable, you're thinking, "Oh, the thief is the bad guy." Why? because he committed an act of of he was trying to kill the man. He left him for dead. So we think to ourselves, the thief is the murderer. By the way, his relationship with this man, whoever this man is, is an illicit relationship.

In other words, where this man should have loved this man, this thief attempts to kill this man. In the parable, you're tempted to think, who's the bad guy? Oh, it's the thief. The thief is Cain. The thief is a bad guy. The thief is the one that kills. And we are not like the thief. But I need you to understand something. While the thief was a murderer by commission, the the the priest and the Levite who pass by are murderers by omission. Y'all put a five in the chat. Put a five in the chat if you are beginning to understand the heart of this message today.

The thief and the Levite in passing by on the other side were murderers not by commission. In other words, they are not the ones that actually killed the man. They are murderers by omission. They were willing to let the man die. In this story, the Samaritan is the hero because a man that he does not know, he shows a relationship of love and compassion to him. Jesus is trying to tell us here in this parable and he's trying to express to the lawyer that your neighbor is any human being that is in need.

It's not just the children of your own people. The way he misread Leviticus 19. Oh, it's just my people. If anyone I should not oppress my people but other people. I can oppress other people. I cannot like other people. Yet those are not my neighbors. Those are foreigners. Those are the people that are not like us. But what we need to understand, beloved, is that while the priest and the Levite did not pull out the gun, did not pull out the knife, did not pick up the stone to kill the person, they are in fact murderers by omission because they did not extend the love, the compassion that one would that one should extend to the neighbor.

The Samaritan in this story is the hero. And you can imagine how they could not stand that because the Samaritan is not one of us. And I want you to note now beloved, I want you to watch this carefully. Okay? Let's go back to the screen and I want you to note this. So the Bible says in Luke 10:33, "But a Samaritan as he journeyed came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion on him and went to him." Now stop right here. Stop right here. Everything else you're about to read from here on from here out is almost irrelevant.

It's almost irrelevant. what the Samaritan does is it is not irrelevant, but for the purpose of what we're what we're looking at today, it is almost irrelevant. And here's what I mean when I say it is almost irrelevant. The Samaritan did not in order to d to try to demonstrate, hey, I've got love for this man, did not let me read it. Let me read it. He went to him, bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an end, and took care of him. Please listen.

This was not done in order for the Samaritan to try to develop a love for this neighbor. This was done as the outgrowth of the love and mercy the Samaritan had on his neighbor. Do you understand what I just said? It stops right at compassion. As soon as we read he had compassion on him, everything else after that was simply an evidence of the compassion that the Samaritan had in his heart, demonstrating, watch, demonstrating that in the heart of this Samaritan was the love of God and the love of neighbor.

It was already there. the Pharisee and the Levite or the priest and the Levite walking past the neighbor was not the walking past the neighbor was simply the evidence of what was already in their hearts. Are y'all understanding what I'm saying? What was already in the heart was being played out. Priest and Levite already murderers. Why? Because they did not love their neighbor. And beloved, what I need you to understand is that for a lot of us today, we're becoming very flippant, very flippant in our and almost boastful in our lack of care for our neighbors.

And what I need you to understand, beloved, is that when we ask a question, well, who is my neighbor? Your neighbor is not described in the Bible as those who are born where you were born. According to Jesus, the neighbor is that other person, the one not like you. You understand the history between the Jews and the Samaritans. And so the last thing that they would expect to hear is that the Samaritans were their neighbors. Please understand that when the Samaritan goes and and and pours oil and wine and sets him on his own beast and brings him to the inn and takes care of him and and and and and leaves money and says to the host, "Take care of him and when and whatever you you."

Just know that all of that was the outflow of what was in the Samaritan's heart. Note with me again how the Bible says on the when he departed, he took out two pence and gave them to the host and said unto him, take care of him and whatsoever you spend more when I come again, I will repay thee. When I come again, I will repay thee. I'm coming back to that statement. But I need you to understand something. I need you to catch this here, beloved. Because you see this word neighbor, the Greek for the word neighbor is pion.

And it literally means near, to come near. Meaning then that the neighbor we may say is the nearer. The neighbor, the true neighbor is the one who will come close to another. So now you got two groups of people. Those who pass by and those who come close. The ones who come close, they are the true neighbors. They have the spirit of Christ. The ones who pass by, nah, stay far away from me and keep them far away from me and keep them far away from us. Please understand, that those with the spirit of stay far away from me because I know you're kind and I know your type, you are literally exemplifying the spirit of the priest and the Levite.

No, no, no, no, no. They are not murderers by commission and would probably never be murderers by commission. But you are murdering by omission. Am I my brother's keeper? Is that my neighbor? It's the same spirit. It's the same. It's the same heart. Beloved, I believe this is why Jesus put these things in the Bible. Let's go to Leviticus chapter 9. Leviticus chapter 19:34 where the Bible says, "The stranger who dwells among you shall be to you as one born among you, and you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in a land in the land of Egypt.

I am the Lord your God." In other words, you were foreigners. Never forget that you were foreigners in a land that wasn't your homeland. Remember how you were treated and do not treat others the way you were treated. No, I am the Lord your God. Watch this. Let's go back to the screen. It's almost like God is saying, "Here is why I'm commanding you to do this. I'm commanding you to treat those who are strangers as one born among you as neighbors. I am the Lord your God. It's almost as if he's saying, "Hold on now.

I need you to understand my character. I need you to understand who I am. And I need you to understand that who I am determines who you are. So because I am the Lord your God and I want you to be like the Lord your God. I am commanding you to love your neighbor. Well, who is my neighbor? Oh, who is your neighbor? Your neighbor is the stranger. Your neighbor is the one that was not born among you. I'm going somewhere with this. I want you to follow along. In Exodus 23:9, also you shall not oppress a stranger, for you know the heart of a stranger because you were strangers in in the land of Egypt.

You know what it was like to be a stranger. And that's why I'm telling you, do not oppress the stranger. Deuteronomy chapter 10 verse 18 and 19, he administers justice for the fatherless and the widow and loves the stranger. Whoa, wait a minute. God loves the stranger. You would you would think you would think by the things we hear today that God hates the stranger. That God hates the stranger. And yet, beloved, this is very far from the truth. God loves the stranger. Giving him food. What? That's our food.

That's our clothing. No, no, no. God loves the stranger. Giving him food and clothing. Therefore, because God loves a stranger, I command you to love the stranger. Now, remember, remember what Jesus said, right? He said this, "Do thou shalt live." beloved, is that the devil will find a thousand different ways to get you lost. He will find a thousand different ways to get you to exemplify hatred either for God or for your neighbor. And one of the easiest ways for him to get you to, you know, hey, I'm not killing my neighbor.

I'm just saying, who is my neighbor? I'm just saying, am I my brother's keeper? It's not even my brother. that the enemy of souls is simply trying to get you to act like that thief, like that priest, or like that Levite. If he can't get you to kill by commission, he will get you to kill by And beloved, listen to me. When you kill by omission, I need you to understand here in this parable, in this parable, what I need you to understand is that Jesus is the man that left heavenly Jerusalem to come down to this earth.

He was on his way, beloved, to be a neighbor, to be a nearer to us because we were in sin. We were in need. We were sickened with the sin. We were sickened with sin. And Jesus in the parable, watch this you guys, in the parable, he is the man working his way down, coming from heaven down to earth. And when he gets to earth, y'all, he is jumped by a bunch of thieves. The Bible says in Isaiah 53:3 and 4, he is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid as it were our faces from him.

We passed by on the other side. We were the priest. We were the Levite. We were the thief. Wow. Wow. He was the spies and we esteemed him not. We passed by. In fact, you can read in Matthew 27, Matthew Matthew 27 when Jesus is on the cross and the Bible literally says, "And they passed by wagging their heads." Come on, somebody. He was despised and we esteem him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God. But he was wounded. Y'all see this?

He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like like sheep have gone astray and we have turned everyone his way, everyone to his own way. And the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. Y'all listen to me. Watch this y'all. Not only in this parable is Christ the man who fell among thieves. Almost as if the parable is trying to tell us Jesus is the lamb of God who came into this world to die for our sins to be wounded for our transgressions.

In this parable, Jesus is not only the man who came down from the heavenly Jerusalem to to to to be a nearer to us. But in this parable, he is also the good Come on y'all. Let me let me read to you. Malachi 4:2. But unto you that fear my name shall the son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings, and you shall go as go forth as and grow up as cows in the stall. Please understand that not only is Jesus in this parable, the man who was wounded and beaten and left for dead, but he is also the Samaritan, the one who came to this world to pick up our bodies.

Our bodies left for dead. to pick us up who were bruised and beaten by iniquity and to heal us. Jesus is demonstrating in this parable the love of God for man. And what God wants to demonstrate is the love of man for God and for neighbor. In other words, in this parable, he is both the lamb and the priest. He is the man left for dead and he's the good Samaritan. And Jesus wants us to reflect that. And watch this. Remember how remember the last words of the Samaritan. When I come again, I will repay.

When I come again, I will repay. Come on, let me break it down for you. Matthew chapter 25. Matthew chapter 25. Note the words of the Good Samaritan. when I come again, I will repay. In Matthew 25:34, then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, then shall the good Samaritan, capital G, capital S, then shall the king say unto them on the right hand, come ye blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Why? For I was hungry, and you gave me meat.

I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in. Naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee a hungered and fed thee, or thirsty, and gave thee drink? Or when saw we thee a stranger, and took thee to the inn? When, Lord, did we see you as a stranger and pick you up off the side of the road and bring you to the inn? Took the inn. To the inn. When did we see you naked and clothe thee or sick or in prison and came unto thee?

I don't remember that. I remember I remember there was this neighbor of mine that was beaten and half left for dead. But that was the neighbor. That wasn't that wasn't you, was it? You're not the stranger. Ah, and then we remember Jesus's last part of the words, last words in verse 40 when he says, "And the king shall answer and say unto them, verily I say unto you, in as much as you have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, you have done it unto me, and as Clint just said in the chat, be careful to entertain strangers, for some have thereby unwittingly entertained angels."

Do you know how many people are going to have to answer for the way you treated the stranger, not realizing that you were entertaining angels. You see, God wants his people to be good And good Samaritans have the oil and the wine. You understand that the oil is symbolic of the Holy Spirit and the wine is symbolic of the gospel. You understand, beloved, that the Holy Spirit and the gospel are what God's people have been called upon to go give. Remember what Jesus said. Remember what Jesus said, go and do likewise.

In other words, he's saying, I need you to replicate the work of the good Samaritan. Remember, remember, let's go back when Jesus said when Jesus, in fact, I'm just going to read it. Which thou of these three thinkst thou was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves. And he said, he that showed mercy on him, then said Jesus, go and do likewise. Go and do likewise. I want you to go and find those who are half dead, who are left for dead, and bring them to the end. Don't pass by. bring them to the end.

Be a nearer. This is a calling. This is a commission. And now I want you to understand something. At the end of time, this is the group of people that the devil is angry with. Let me break it down for you. Revelation 12 verse 17. The dragon was wroth and with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. Meaning meaning the dragon is angry with the good Samaritans. Let me stop for a second. The lawyer asks Jesus, "What shall we do to inherit eternal life?"

Jesus points him to the law. Says, "How do you read the law?" And the lawyer says, "Love thy neighbor, love God with all thy heart, and love thy neighbor as thyself." And Jesus says, "You got it. You answered right. You are you got it. You have answered correctly." Do you understand what this means, beloved? Those who keep the commandments of God are the good Samaritans. Which means at the end of time, the devil is after good Samaritans. Which means what I need you to understand is that if you claim to be an Adventist, but you don't have the love of God in your heart for neighbors, you're not keeping the law.

The dragon isn't after you. He already has you. He's not after you. We should not flatter ourselves that the dragon is after us when we're not keeping the law. What is keeping the law? I go to church every Sabbath. Hold on. Y'all must be misunderstanding something. The lawyer in the in the story went to church every Sabbath. The lawyer in the story was a Sabbathke keeper. But there was a deeper issue inside him. He had issues inside his heart. So then when the Bible tells us in Revelation 12:17 that the dragon went to make war with those that keep the commandments of God, what is it is in essence saying is that it's going to make war with those who have compassion and empathy for other people, thus fulfilling the law of God.

Yes, they keep the letter of the law, but it doesn't stop at the letter. They also have the spirit of the law. You'll remember that the woman in Revelation chapter 17, uh, she she gives the world a false wine and she doesn't even have any oil. So, no spirit, no spirit, and a counterfeit gospel. Did y'all catch that? The good Samaritan has oil and wine. The woman in Revelation 17 has no oil, no spirit, and what she gives is a counterfeit wine, a wine of wrath. Pause for a second. Babylon no oil but wine.

But the wine she has is wrathful wine. It's a gospel that embides in wrath. It's a gospel that that celebrates wrath, celebrates anger. celebrates everything that is unlike Christ. It's almost as if, watch this now. It's almost as if this this this counterfeit church system is both thief, Levite, and priest in the parable. Because you remember, you remember that the thief comes to kill, steal, and destroy. Jesus said, "I came to give life and to that they may have life and have it more abundantly."

But the thief, this this counterfeit system, which is exactly what Jesus was speaking to in his day, because in his day, the people believed that they were following God, but had a a hate for neighbor. And while none of them would say, I would kill my neighbor, by their acts of omission, I am keeping my love from you. No, no, no, no, no, no. You're not one of us. They were murderers by omission. So, so we have two things happening at the at the end of time. There is the wine of wrath that the devil has control of of of all who embibe in the wine of wrath.

And those are the ones that are coming to make war with those who keep the commandments of God. Meaning they have the oil, the spirit, and the true wine, which are both designed, listen to me, to heal the the ill soul. Because remember, love workketh no ill to its neighbor. So the purpose of the wine and the oil is to heal the people that have been beaten and bruised and overcome by sin. Whereas the wine of the wrath is designed to beat on people who are not like them, to deny people who are not like them.

I need you to understand the two different things happening here. And so now in this context of the good Samaritan and being Jesus himself and then him saying go and do likewise understand that in this context the final message in Revelation 14:6 is really end time good Samaritans going forward into the world. Let me read it. I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, not to their own people.

They are going forward with wine and oil for everybody. They're not asking before initiating the oil and wine, what country are you from? They're not asking these kinds of questions. What What kind of How did you end up like this? Were you hanging out with the wrong crowd and got and got and your your friends turned on you? Or are you a are you a wine bber? How did you end up here? Because a a respectable man might not be in this situation. So, is this something you brought on? No questions. Watch this, y'all.

No questions. You're in trouble. Let me help. I didn't ask what you believe. I didn't ask what your thoughts on this. Not ask. No, you are. You are my neighbor regardless regardless of earthly titles and earthly, you know, uh uh positions. You are my neighbor. This is God's planet, not mine, not yours. I don't own pro. This is not my property. This is God's planet. And so God says, "I put my children on this planet and I command you to love one another. The preaching of the everlasting gospel in Revelation chapter 14:6 is in essence good Samaritans going forward seeking the seeking those that are left for dead.

What do you mean those that are left for dead? Let me show you. Saying with a loud voice, "Fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgment is come and worship him that made heaven, the earth, the sea, and the fountains of waters." And there followed another angel saying, "Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication." Please understand this mystery Babylon has stolen salvation from millions and millions of people and they are half dead without even knowing it.

They are beaten up by the by the by the lies and false doctrines and teachings of entire churches. And God says, "Good Samaritans, I need you to go in, find these people who are half dead, stuck in Babylon, and I need you to bring them to the end. I need you to I need you to give them oil. I need you to give them the true gospel. I need you to give them the true spirit. I need you to to to show them what truth is. I need you to bring them to the end. And when I come back, I got you beloved. This means that those who receive the mark of the beast at the end of time, those who are destroyed at the end of time were either murderers by commission or murderers by omission.

They were the priest, the Levites, the thief. In this parable, they received the mark of the beast. Those who receive the seal of God, and you remember what the seal of God is, right? The seal of God is the very sign that God gave to his people to remind them that they were once strangers in a land that was not theirs, in a place where they were foreigners. And as a result of them remembering that, that they should never treat the stranger as they were treated. Those who receive the seal of God are those who have this written in their heart.

And by the way, please note, please note how the three angels messages end. Revelation 14:12, here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. Yeah. Yeah. Listen, we're we're almost done. I got one more verse and we're going to wrap this up. Jeremiah 31:33. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, say the Lord. I will put my law into their minds and write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.

Beloved, too many of us too many of us are talking about the Ten Commandments as let me say it this way in a way where we can check. All right. Yep. I don't do this. I don't do this. I don't do this. I don't do this. I don't do this. So therefore, I am keeping the commandments of God. When Jesus described the fulfillment of keeping the law of God and Paul described it, they both used a very simple word, love. That word is being mocked by the enemy today. That word is being mocked even by Christians today.

We don't talk about loving our neighbor. No, no, no, no, no, no. We talk about loving the country. We talk about uh uh uh loving truth. But the very thing Jesus says, this is what is going to get you into the kingdom of heaven. This is what is going to seal you. And if you think, well, sealing, sealing and and and and treating others nice, how does that work? Let me just wrap it up with Isaiah 58. Isaiah 58:6. Is not this the fast that I've chosen? Speaking of the Sabbath, is not this the fast that I've chosen to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that you break every yoke.

Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the the poor that are cast out to thy house, good Samaritan? When thou seest the naked that thou cover him, and you hide not yourself from your own flesh, then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine heart, thy health shall spring forth speedily, and thy righteousness shall go before thee, and the glory of the Lord shall be thy reward. You guys, this parable of the good Samaritan, when you understand it in an end time context, lets us know that the final test, the reason why as time goes on, the love of many will wax cold is because the final test of Satan will be to attempt to get God's people to become murderers by commission or omission.

And he's leading up to that, beloved. He's giving us little tests now to see how do you respond to this? How do you respond to that? Okay, I see you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good. And he's train he's attempting to train he's attempting to train God's people to not love in the name of And how terrifying a thought that so many of God's professed people are doing exactly as this lawyer did when they asked the question, "Who is my neighbor? When the laws of this earth or the the the culture of this earth overrides the law of God, there is danger.

Beloved, may our prayer be, may our plea be, Lord, help me to truly love my neighbor. Not in a worldly context, but in a godly context in in with the way Jesus said to do it. Help me to love my neighbor in that way. And you know what? I'm not God. No, no, no. I mean, no need to say that. But I could just sense the struggle in the heart of so many of so many of us as we hear this message. But you don't understand. You're asking me to love murderers. Do you understand that Jesus came down, left heaven to come near to murderers?

While we were yet enemies, Jesus died for us. How dare we place ourselves above any other human being because of who they are, where they are from, or what they have done. Do you understand that when when we come to God weeping with tears, Lord, forgive me, and he forgives us, and then we go out, then we go out and see someone that we think is less than us and we hem them up. We're not going to offer you forgiveness. We're not going to offer you. We hem them up and we beat them up and we and we walk by and we No, we're No, no, no, no.

Do you understand that when you do not extend to others what God has extended to us that your citizenship in the kingdom of heaven will be revoked? There is no lifetime guaranteed citizenship in the kingdom of heaven when you fail to follow the laws of the kingdom of heaven. And so many of us are breaking the laws of the kingdom of heaven to honor the laws of this world, thinking that we will not get our citizenship revoked. May the Lord help us to live according to the laws of the that when Jesus comes again, the repaying that he gives is a good repay is a come ye blessed enter into the kingdom that I've gone to prepare for you.

You are a citizen of heaven. If you would like to be a citizen of heaven, if you are if you you are not a citizen of he of heaven and you want to be a citizen of heaven, number one. And number two, if you found yourself lately not really acting like a citizen of heaven and forgetting what the law of heaven is and that the law of heaven is greater than the law of this earth or the law of any nation, I want you to put that one in the chat where you're saying today, Lord, either forgive me for not acting like a citizen of the kingdom, forgive me for breaking the law of the kingdom, the law of love, And if I'm not a citizen, if you're not a citizen, you're saying today, Lord, I want to become a citizen of the kingdom.

Make me today a citizen of the kingdom. as I close in prayer. the end of this message, I'm going to bring up another slide that's going to show you how if you are interested in Bible study, if you want to be baptized, if you want to give your life fully to Christ and you want to prepare for baptism, how you can get in contact with us so that one of our Bible workers will be will connect with you and begin to walk you through Bible study. Um, and that's for those of you who in putting the one in the chat, you're saying, "I need to become a a a citizen of the kingdom of heaven.

Show me how to do show me how to get my citizenship. And then for those of you who have said today, Lord, help me to keep my citizenship and not give it away by breaking the law of love in heaven. I want to pray for both of you right now. So, let's do that. Heavenly Father, thank you Lord for speaking again another word of truth. Thank you for the fresh mana from heaven to show us, Lord, especially in the time that we're living in for us not to get caught up in any law that requires us to go against the law of the kingdom of heaven.

Lord, may we be willing to give up everything rather than break the law of heaven. May we esteem the law of that of that world greater than the laws of this world. And Lord, for those who are praying today to become citizens of the kingdom of heaven, I pray that you would lead them and guide them and that you would put the fire in their heart. Lord, that you would grant them a brand new heart that loves God and loves neighbor with everything that they have. Lord, forgive us who have known better.

Forgive us for exempl or for um for showing the spirit of the priest, the Levite, and in some cases even the thief. Please Lord, set us right with you. Grant us the heart of the Samaritan. Grant us the heart of you who came down from heaven, down from the new Jerus, down from Jerusalem, the heavenly Jerusalem to come to this earth to draw near to us while we were yet sinners. Grant us that heart, Lord. Forgive us our sins and draw us to you is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. We're going to go ahead and put this last slide on the screen for you to see.

We're also going to put in the link uh in the chat uh the link for our afterglow. I want to thank you guys for being able uh thank first the tech team for getting us back up uh despite uh the the um uh the link um going dead a couple of times the microphone. But thank you guys for jumping back on and for watching this through. Uh it will be uploaded and perhaps edited so that we don't have that whole part at the beginning. But may God bless you. Um look forward to connecting with you on alter not on alter live on the on the afterlow in the zoom link.

And uh again may God bless you and keep you until we meet again. And by the way, please remember this Sunday night I will be addressing I'm sorry. I am so sorry. There is no afterglow today. So my apologies on that. I'm so used to saying the afterglow, but there is no afterglow today. So it's after go. It's after go. So go out there and do the work of the Lord. Um, I do want to remind you that this uh Sunday, so that is tomorrow, we will be uh at 7 PM uh Central Standard Time, we're going to be doing the 10 horns study part two.

Um the why behind the Sunday law. So, please make sure you join us then. And again, may God bless you and keep you. And um we'll see you tomorrow and next week. God bless. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you.

Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.