Amen. Amen. Happy Sabbath living mana church family. Uh I want to invite you. I want to invite you to take this time to share this link and invite everyone that you can because I need people we need people to hear this message today. And this is going to be an in-house message, you guys. Um we're gonna have to we're going to talk about some in-house things that I think are very important for God's people, especially in the time that we're living in. Um the title of the message today is this man eateth with sinners.

This man eateth with sinners. I want to invite you to pray with me. Heavenly Father, we're asking Lord today that in a special way you would please speak to your people. Lord, hide me behind your cross. Lord, infuse me with your spirit. And Lord, may the words I speak be uplifting and glorifying to you. We pray in Jesus name. Amen. So guys, um I want to address something uh that occurred over the last over last Sabbath that has now um kind of gone very public, let me say, uh within our church. So, a few months back, um I was invited to actually speak at a religious liberty event for um the 7th Day Adventist Church in H uh the Hansen 7th Day Adventist Church in Brooklyn, New York.

And I was told that there were going to be several politicians there and that these politicians were supposed to only speak on religious liberty. So, they were being invited, but we weren't sure if they weren't sure if they were going to come. And uh to me I was like, "Hey, listen. If I if I'm able to be there and to preach a message on religious liberty and the separation of church and state in the presence of um politicians and I was told there were going to be politicians from the left, politicians from the right."

Uh and um I was like, "Lord, what an opportunity. What an opportunity." I was told they were not going to be politicking. And um and so anyway, we accepted the invitation and uh when we got to New York last weekend uh Friday and we were uh fellowshipping with uh some of the uh with actually one of the one of the uh organizers of the of the event and I remember we were there eating lunch uh Friday afternoon and he was on a phone with several of the the politicians um uh offices. is and they were like taking notes like okay so remember no uh political talk.

Um and then I I even heard him over say make sure that they greet the speaker the pastor that's going to be speaking and in my head I'm I'm kind of like they don't even know me like but hey it's a formality so let it be. And so, uh, I'm looking forward to, you know, hopefully meeting all of these politicians because, man, what an opportunity. What an opportunity to be able to share with them, even if I don't get to do it that there. I don't I mean, I didn't know how long they were going to be sticking around or what.

I had no clue, but even if I got to meet some of them, that the Lord would would would be able to plant seeds later down the road. I thought, man, what a great opportunity. So, Sabbath morning comes around and um the only one that actually came early and actually walked into the back room while my wife and I were there uh into the pastor's office was um Zoron Mamani. Zoran Mani. I I didn't know what the guy looked like. I never heard his name before. I didn't know he was running for mayor. because I don't follow New York politics.

Like I think I may asked my wife, "Who's that again?" And she's like, "The guy that's running for mayor." This is like, you know, 20, 30 minutes before he comes into the office. The name I heard was Hakee Jeff that was going to be there. And that was that was the name that I knew. And I was like, I wonder if I'm gonna get to meet him. So when Zon comes in and you know just a little little bit earlier, my wife was like, "That's a guy that's running for mayor for New York." And I'm like, "Okay, so okay, this is a guy running for mayor for New York.

I didn't know he was as well known as he was. I didn't know that." And so he comes in and we greet and uh we greet each other. Um and he, you know, he's very just, you know, warm personality. Um, and someone took a picture of us and our our exchange was probably like maybe a minute. So then we all have to go out and it's only him. He's the only one there. Some of the other politicians don't come till later. And I remember as I was sitting sitting down in the pew and I was sitting next to one of the organizers and he was just like he was saying to me, "Lord, please do not do not let them, you know, go off course.

We have done everything we could to let them know please stay on religious liberty." And I said to him, "Yeah, you know how those YouTube channels go. Uh they just looking for something. So Zoron gets up and he's speaking and uh he he uh says I want to thank I don't even know what he said. I think he said I mess. What? He butchered my name. And I was like well no one's going to even recognize that. And I just kind of chuckled in my mind like yeah cuz he doesn't know me. evil Eevee Eevee my whatever he said.

And so uh um you know they say what they say and some of them you know veer off a little bit and I'm just like but I know that the that that the leaders instructed them do not speak on anything political. This is about religious liberty. And they all agreed. So I get up and I do my sermon. It's on Revelation chapter 13. It's on the third angel's message. It's on the close of probation. It's on the the uh um uh uh apostate Protestantism. It is our message. We leave the following day. And that morning, my wife happened to post the picture.

I didn't even know she was posting it. Posted the picture um on her Instagram. I had no idea that she that she had done that. And in the picture, she tagged me, Ivormeyers. And then she thought she was tagging uh uh Zoron in a way that to say, "Hey, you know, this is a way that, you know, trying to stay connected with him so that he could see, hey, we posted this, you know, we posted the picture." Um, and the post that she chose when all the I mean, the tag that she chose when all the tags came up was uh Zoron for mayor.

So, it looked like she was endorsing Zoron for mayor. And I didn't know this till after the plane landed in Huntsville, Alabama. And um somebody calls me and says, "Pastor, uh there are people saying that you endorsed uh the guy running for mayor." And I was like, "Why would I endorse somebody that I don't know that I just met that I don't know about his politics? Like I just met him. That doesn't make sense." And they were like, "Well, on your wife's Instagram there's a picture." And I'm like, "But that that's just a picture."

And they were like, "Well, it says Zoron for mayor." And I was like, "What?" So, I opened my phone, looked at the picture, and I was like, "This is saying that you're, you know, we're endorsing uh this guy for mayor." And she was like, "No, I'm tagging him." And I was like, "Well, we got to tag him with something else because we're not endorsing him." And she was like, "Okay." And it looks like this is his wrong tag anyway. So, she took the picture down, put it back up. By the way, they had already told me this picture has already been shared and people are saying you're endorsing a candidate.

If I had been endorsing a candidate, the picture would still be up with the hashtag. So, all of this to say you guys that um that later that even I actually put up a post and said, "Hey guys, no, this is not what happened." And that was it you guys. and I became a Muslim uh supporter. What are you doing standing with this man? He's a Democrat. He's evil. He's wicked. And in essence, the sentiment was this man taketh pictures with sinners. There is a basis of the message, you guys. There's a basis of the message.

I remember a few uh within last month a lot of my Adventist brothers and sisters were talking about the importance of context and how you can't take a sentence from someone online out of context and you know you got to look at the context and and even though things you know may seem X Y and Z you got to look at the context and so surely I was like well you know they're going to they're going to consider context they're going to know that but no no the the same people that were talking about context context suddenly didn't matter.

This is the foundation, guys. I'm I'm setting the foundation, the stage because videos were made and and none of the people ever stopped to say, "Hey, let's go and talk to Pastor Myers and see, hey, what was the situation behind this?" Like, what happened? It's all right to be confused and say, "Hey, that you know what was going on?" But before we jump to conclusions and start putting out posts and videos and things of that nature, I want to speak to something that I believe is happening in our church that that has the devil smiling.

I want to go to the screen and I want to read a statement from uh the spirit of prophecy. And the sermon has now begun. Ellen White says these words. He says, "I saw that the very spirit of perjury that would turn truth into falsehood, good into evil, and innocence into crime is now active. Satan exalts over the condition of God's professed people. While many are neglecting their own souls, they eagerly watch for an opportunity to criticize and condemn others. All have defects of character, and it is not hard to find something that jealousy can interpret to their injury.

Now, say these self-constituted judges, we have the facts. We will fasten upon them an accusation from which they cannot clear themselves. We got the picture, y'all. We have the picture and we have the hashtag. It is the smoking gun. They wait for a fitting opportunity and then produce their bundle of gossip and bring forth their tidbits. Let me talk about this definition of perjury for a moment because she says here,"I saw the spirit of perjury." Let me read it again. I saw that the very spirit of perjury that would turn truth into falsehood, good into evil, and innocence into crime is now active and so among God's people.

So, what is perjury? Perjury is the offense of willfully telling an untruth in a court after having taken an oath or affirmation. That's what perjury is. I want to read on and I want you to notice this. Uh the prefix purr in Latin often meant harmful. So witnesses who perger themselves do harm to the truth by knowingly telling a lie. Not all lying is perjury. Only lying under an oath. So perjury perjury generally takes place either in court or before a legislative body such as Congress. To avoid committing perjury, a witness or defendant may simply take the fifth, that is refuse to answer a question because the answer might be an admission of guilt.

And the fifth amendment to the constitution forbids forcing a citizen to admit to being guilty of a crime. Did you know that for Christians, taking the fifth when it comes to gossip and spreading rumors is always the safest thing to do. Why? Because Ellen White just told us that the spirit of perjury, she saw it running rampant in the church. Now, you might say, "Well, no, we're not in in a in a court of law. But we're not in Congress. Uh uh we're not before a legislative body. So and and we're not take we haven't taken an oath.

But I want you to notice, beloved, that Ellen White also says, "He who accepts God as his sovereign must take the oath of allegiance to him. He must put on the Christian uniform and bear a loft the banner that shows to whose army he belongs. He must make an open avow of his allegiance to Christ. Concealment is impossible. Christ's impress Christ impress must appear on the life in sanctified works. In other words, when you and I became Christians, we took an oath. You are under an oath. And beloved, part of that oath is to reflect and represent the character of Christ.

Part of that oath is found in Exodus 20:16, which says, "Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." When you bear false witness against your neighbor, when you have that spirit of perjury, you are breaking an oath. Y'all put a one in the chat if you understand what I'm saying. As Christians, as Seventh Day Adventists, we are under an oath to tell the truth. And when we willingly either omit the truth or twist the truth to do harm to another person's character, you are breaking the oath.

You are under the spirit of perjury. Listen to what she says. In their efforts to carry a point, persons who have naturally a strong imagination are in danger of deceiving themselves and deceiving others. They gather up unguarded expressions from another, not considering that words may be uttered hastily and hence may not reflect the real sentiments of the speaker. But those unpremeditated remarks, often so trifling as to be unworthy of notice, are viewed through Satan's magnifying glass, pondered and repeated until molehills become mountains.

I am so glad that God has given us the gift of the spirit of prophecy to reveal the spirit of truth versus the spirit of error. There is something going on in our church, beloved, that is very dangerous. It is a spirit of perjury. It is a spirit that says, "What dirt can I find on the next individual to make myself look good? That is an antichrist spirit. Let me keep reading. Is it Christian charity to gather up every floating report to unearth everything that will cast suspicion on the character of another and then take delight in using it to injure him?

Satan exalts when he can defame or wound a follower of Christ. He is the accuser of the brethren. Shall Christians aid him in his work? Let me keep reading. The spirit of gossip and tailbearing is one of Satan's special agencies to sow discord and strife, to separate friends, and to undermine the faith of many in the truthfulness of our positions. Brethren and sisters are too ready to talk of the faults of and errors they think exist in others and especially in those whom have borne unflinchingly the message of reproof and warning given them of God.

The children of these complainers listen to me. When children see this stuff going on, y'all listen to what she says. with open ears and receive the poison of dissatisfaction. Parents are thus blinded, caught closing the avenues through which the hearts of the children might be reached. How many families season their daily meals with doubt and questioning? They dissect the characters of their friends and serve them up as dainty desserts. A precious bit of slander is passed around the board to be commented upon not only by adults but by children.

In this, God is dishonored. Jesus said, "In as much as you have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, you have done it unto me." Matthew 25:40. Therefore, Christ is slighted and abused by those who slander his servants. And listen to this next sentence. The names of God's chosen servants have been handled with disrespect and in some cases with absolute contempt by persons whose duty it is to hold them up. You know, I remember in the Bible the story of David and Saul. David and Saul. And and David had such a respect for God's anointed that even in that anointed man's absolute corruptness, David said, "Do not touch the Lord's anointed."

David had that kind of reverence. And I'll tell you that kind of thing is gone in our church. The the level of of respect due to one another, it's not that the pastor is higher than this person. The level of respect due to one another is disappearing within our church. It's happening. So, um um I'm going to address something else very quickly and then I'm I'm this is setting the foundation for what you are about to see and you're all about to understand something that that is absolutely crucial you guys because one of the complaints that I typically get and I even got over this sermon was all you do is talk about Christian nationalism and Revelation chapter 13 and you're not talking about this and this and this and this and therefore you are unbalanced.

Therefore, you are unbalanced, pastor. You're biased. You lean this way. You're not fair. You don't talk about X, Y, and Z, but you're always talking about A, B, and C. So guys, we're about to go through a lesson that I hope you will never forget. This is from the Bible. Please, I need y'all to focus. Let's follow. Let's let let's move along. Second Peter chapter 1 verse 21. The Bible says, "For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost."

So here's what I want you to understand you guys. The Holy Ghost moved the men of the Bible, the prophets, the authors, the writers to speak and write what they wrote. meaning the entire Bible. The entire Bible was inspired by the Holy Spirit. Now, why is that important? John 16:7 says this, "Nevertheless, I tell you the truth. It is expedient for you that I go away. For if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you. And when he has come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment.

In other words, the work of the Holy Spirit was to reprove. That was one of the jobs of the Holy Spirit, to reprove, to rebuke. Therefore, it might be a good idea for us to go back through the Bible and see how the Holy Spirit rebuked. In what way can we find a pattern of rebuke according to how the spirit did it? And so here's what we're going to do. We're going to go through the whole Bible and we're going to we're going to trace this pattern and you're going to see something absolutely mindblowing unfold.

Now, how many of you want to be in unison with the Holy Spirit? Just put a one in the chat if you want to be in unison with the Holy Spirit. Here's what we're going to do you guys. We're going to see can we find a pattern, a ratio of the Holy Spirit. Let's let's see if we were to trace the entire Old Testament. And by the way, here's what I did. I went to to chat GPT and I said, "Chat, I have a question. I want you to take all the warnings of the Old Testament and tell me how many of those warnings inspired by the Holy Spirit, how many of those warnings were directed to unbelievers and how many of those warnings were directed to God's own people?

And here's what Chat GPT said. Chad GBT put out a number for me and said approximately 70 to 85% of the Holy Spirit's focus on reproving in the Old Testament was towards those professing to believe in God. Y'all put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat if you could see that clearly. Most of the books of the Old Testament are directed at the people of God. That would make sense. The Old Testament was written for the people of God. All right. So, so what about the New Testament? Interestingly enough, in the New Testament, if we were just to look at Jesus, the Holy Spirit working through Jesus, I want you to note what Matthew chapter 10:5 says.

Then these 12 sent forth and commanded, then tw these 12 Jesus sent forth and commanded them, saying, "Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans, and to you not. But go ye rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel." Interestingly enough, Jesus says, "I've only been sent unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel." So, I asked Chat GBT, "Hey, chat, how much rebuking did Jesus do to unbelievers versus to the people who claimed to serve God?" Chat GBT's response.

Roughly 80 to 90% of Jesus's rebukes were toward people professing to serve God. There is barely no rebuke to a Roman, to the Roman soldiers, to the unbelievers, to the ungodly. Now, we might stop and ask a question. I might stop and ask a question. Hey, hey, would you all say that Jesus was being balanced? Put a five in the chat if you think Jesus was being balanced. Put a eight in the chat if you think Jesus was being unbalanced. Because Jesus, it seems that you are not calling out the sins of the Romans enough.

You are only focused, Jesus, on what those who profess to serve God are doing. Jesus, you're not being very balanced. Your preaching, Jesus, seems to only focus on those who profess to serve God. Why aren't you talking more about the Romans? unbeliever? I fear that some of us, the way we have gotten in our thinking today, would accuse Jesus of being biased in his preaching. All right, how about this? Let's go to the epistles. And I'm going to show you something, you guys. I want you to check this out.

I want to look at every epistle. And we're going to run through this very quickly. I just want to show you how they all begin. So 1 Corinthians chapter 1:2, to all that be in Rome, I'm sorry, Romans chapter 1:7. To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints. Wow. Did you know the book of Romans was not written to unbelievers? Did you know the book of Romans and everything in it was directed to the saints in Rome? How about 1 Corinthians 1? 1 Corinthians 1:2. Unto the church of God which is at Corenth.

2 Corinthians 1:2. Unto the church of God which is at Corenth. Galatians chapter 1:2. And all the brethren which are with me unto the churches of Galatia. Ephesians to the saints which are at Eph Ephesus. Philippians to all the saints in Christ which are at Philippi. Colossians to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ which are at Coloss uh Colasse Thessalonians unto the church of Thessalonians Thessalonians unto the church of Thessalonians that's first and second Thessalonians Timothy Paul unto Timothy my own son in the faith second Timothy Paul to Timothy my beloved son in the faith Titus to Titus my own son after the common faith Fleiman Paul a prisoner of Jesus Christ and Timothy our brother unto Fleiman our dearly beloved and fellow laborer and to our beloved Beloved Aphia and Archipus our fellow soldier and to the church in thy house.

Hebrews God who at sunundry times and in diverse manner spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets has in these last days spoken unto us by his son. We're almost there you guys. James chapter 1. James to the 12 tribes which are scattered abroad. He first Peter chapter 1 to the strangers scattered through Pontius and Galatia, Capidosia, Asia, Bithnneia elect according to the fornowledge of God the father. Uh, second Peter, Simon Peter, to them that have obtained like precious faith. First John, that which we have seen and held, declare we unto you that we may have f that you may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the father and with the son Jesus Christ.

2 John 1, to the elder and the elect lady and her children whom I love in the truth. Third John, to the elder and to unto the well-beloved Gaes. Jude, Jude to them that are sanctified, revelation to the seven churches which are in Asia. Do y'all see what just happened? Every epistle, you guys, these epistles, listen carefully to me, they were not written to unbelievers. So all the council, all the rebuke in these books are towards believers. written towards believers, rebuke towards believers. And in fact, the rebuke when when it dealt with the the Gentiles or the Romans or the unbeliever, the rebuke was don't be like them.

So I asked chat GBT, what is the percentage of internal rebuke versus rebuke for the unbeliever? And again, wow, look at that. 85 to 95% from Acts all the way to Revelation is focused on rebuke of professed believers. And I got to ask you a question for those of you who say, "Oh, you know, your preaching is is unbalanced. You you only do this percent of this, but you do a whole bunch of that." Would you say that the Bible and Jesus and the prophets were unbalanced? let's just break down the book of Revelation.

I asked chat GPT the same question and it says 80 to 90% of the book of revelation is focused on the believers. There is a chapter Revelation 11 that speaks to atheism. Revelation chapter 9 and 10 or 8 and 9 that speaks to the rise of Islam. But by far, the majority of the book is exposing a counterfeit Christian power. Let's talk let's talk for a moment about the spirit of prophecy. So, we've looked at the Bible and we've seen that there is this ratio that keeps popping up 80 to 90% Rebuke is given to those who profess Christ and very little to those to the unbelievers.

And so I said, hm, what about the testimonies? By the way, this is so interesting, you guys. So, so when I put in the testimonies, here's what Chach Chat GBT said. 70 to 85% is internal rebuke. Now it's interesting that the testimonies are called the testimonies to the churches. That's what it's called the testimony. The testimonies to the churches. In other words, the testimonies are not for the unbeliever. But you know what happens you guys? You know what happens? What book? Let me ask you, what book would you give to an atheist that was written by Ellen White?

What book would you give to an unbeliever? Someone who is not a an a Christian that believes in the Bible already, but is doesn't believe in anything else, doesn't believe in the B, doesn't know Jesus. What book would you give of Ellen White's? Come on, y'all. Y'all y'all know, right? Are y'all putting it in the chat? You're either saying Desire of Ages or Steps to Christ. Wow. How much rebuke do you think is in steps to Christ for the unbeliever? The person that's trying to make their way to Jesus, the person that doesn't know Christ.

Isn't that interesting? It seems like the writings of the spirit of prophecy actually follow along the same ratio of the Holy Spirit that we see in the Bible. In fact, in fact, if if we uh uh take the book the great controversy and ask the same question, how much of the book The Great Controversy, which would be a book that I would give, let's say, to someone who believes in Jesus but has prophecy all wrong. That's the book that I would give to them. I wouldn't give them steps to Christ because they have already accepted Christ.

They they already said, "Hey, I believe in Christ." So, I would give I would give the person who claims to believe in Jesus the great controversy. How much rebuke do you think is in the great controversy for the unbeliever versus for a professed Christian power? That's right you guys. 75 to 90% of the book and it says there is one chapter that deals with the French Revolution. There's one other chapter that deals with Rome as it was persecuting the early Christians. BUT THE MAJORITY OF THE BOOK, and I would ask a question, is Ellen White being unbalanced in her approach?

Because now the big the the the the battlecry seems to be the word balance. Balance. But beloved, we see what balance is in the divine realm. We see what balance is according to the Bible. The discip the the Pharisees did not like Jesus because they thought he was unbalanced. They thought Jesus was unbalanced. Y'all, do you know what Ellen White says is the cause of so much ungodliness in the world? Let me read it to you. The light esteemed the light esteem in which the law of God is held even by religious leaders has been productive of great evil.

The teaching which has become so widespread that the device that the divine statutes are no longer abiding upon men is is the same as idolatry in its effect upon the morals of the people. Those who seek to lessen the claims of God's holy law are striking directly at the foundation of the government of families and nations. Religious parents fa failing to walk in his statutes do not command their households to keep the way of the Lord. The law of God is not made the rule of life. The children as they make homes of their own feel under no obligation to teach their children what they themselves have never been taught.

And this is why there are so many godless families. This is why depravity is so deep and widespread. In other words, the spirit of prophecy which is the Holy Spirit writing through write the Holy Spirit moving Ellen White to speak says the blame for the ungodliness of our society lays at the feet of religious teachers who claim that the law of God has been done away with. So then in our experiment we see after when we recap we see wow look at that there's this constant line of between 70 to 90% of the rebuke by the Holy Spirit is always towards those professing to be believers in God while only a small if y'all ask me pastor why do you not focus more on the ungodly unbelievers ers and the people who are who are rejecting God altogether.

If you ask me why, beloved, I will simply tell you I am following the leadings of the Holy Spirit. That's why I'm focusing on what Jesus f focused on. I'm focusing on what Ellen White focused on. I'm focusing on what the entire Bible I'm following that pattern. I'm following that ratio. That is what balance is. Balance is not what we think. Balance is what God thinks. Now the question you might ask is why does the Holy Spirit follow this pattern? Why is the Holy Spirit pointing its rebuke to those who profess to be followers of God?

And the answer is found right here in Isaiah 60:1. The Bible says, "Arise, shine, for thy light is come and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people, but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee, and the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising. Lift up thine eyes round about sea. All they gather themselves together. They come to thee. Thy son shall come from afar, and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.

Then thou shalt see and flow together, and thine heart shall fear and be enlarged, because the abundance of the sea shall be converted unto thee. The forces of the Gentiles shall come unto thee. In other words, beloved, what God is saying is that the reason, listen to me y'all, the reason why my emphasis is on those who profess to know me is because they are the very light I am trying to use to bring non-believers and atheists and Gentiles and Marxists and socialists and Muslims and Buddhists and everybody else who does not call the name of Jesus.

I need you believers to actually be light. And when you are light, that's what's going to draw them. But you are being darkness. And darkness is is what is securing them in what they believe. Because when they look at you, all they see is hate and animosity and darkness. And y'all are not like us. That's why God turns his rebuke on the church. And when I say the church, do not get don't do not misstate what I'm saying. When I say the church, I'm talking about anyone anywhere in the world in any denomination that claims to be a follower of Jesus.

Because the thing that Jesus is most concerned about is false representation. I have called you to be a light in this world. And when you begin to go out and tell people that the Sabbath has been changed, that the law of God has been done away with, that when the dead die, they go straight to heaven, you are not miss, you are not representing the truth. And so for those of us who know the truth, our major focus should be on any false representation of what Jesus represents. Our focus, beloved, is not on condemning the gentile, the Muslim.

Pastor, what are you doing standing next to a Muslim? How dare you disrespect the character of Jesus by saying, "How dare a believer be seen in the presence of an unbeliever?" That is straight up phariseism. And in the name of God, I rebuke you, whoever you are. In the name of God, you will answer to the Lord God Almighty for having the same spirit of the Pharisees who thought that they were too good and holy to be found in the presence of a gentile of an unbeliever. Romans 2:22 says, "Thou says a man should not commit adultery adultery.

Dust thou commit adultery? Thou that aboreest idols, dust thou commit sacrilege? Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law, dishonest thou God? For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you, as it is written. Your wicked idea of what righteousness is is what leads unbelievers to blaspheme the God of heaven. And everyone that possesses that spirit ought to be rebuked because that is not the spirit of our savior. This man eateth with sinners. This man taketh a picture with sinners.

Explain yourself, pastor. What meanth this picture? The Bible says in 2 Timothy 3:16, "All scripture is given by God by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction, and righteousness, that the man of God, not the unbeliever, the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works." So beloved, if the scripture is for the man of God to be perfect, then our role as believers is to help those who are not men of God become men of God so that the scripture that can then do its work on him.

The Bible is written to the believer. It is for the world. But the instructions are for the believer. And those instructions say you are the light of the world. Now, now that you got that right, now that you're representing me right, go out and witness. But what's happening is many of us are taking a false witness of Jesus to the world. And we become so invol so caught up in the false witness that it becomes easy for us to false witness elsewhere. There is a divinely inspired ratio. And I'm not saying these numbers are set solid.

I'm simply saying God spent more, the Holy Spirit spent more of its rebuke on those professing to believe in God than it did on the unbeliever. But the Pharisees wanted to flip that ratio. They didn't like that ratio. Why you not talking about the Romans, Jesus? Why are you always pointing out our sins? You must be done with the Romans. You must be a secret Roman. You must be down with the opposition. You must be down with be elabub because your messages, Jesus, are so unbalanced. You harp on us all the time.

Yeah, I used to listen to Jesus, but once I really started listening to him, he's just unbalanced, man. All he talks about, all he talks about, he never talks about the Romans. The Jews cultivated a spirit of retaliation. In their hatred of the Romans, they gave utterance to hard denunciations and pleased the wicked one by manifesting his attributes. Thus, they were training themselves to do the terrible deeds which he led them on. In the religious life of the Pharisees, there was nothing to recommend piety to the Gentiles.

Jesus bade them not to deceive themselves with the thought that they could in heart rise up against their oppressors and cherish the longing to avenge their wrongs. Pastor, what are you doing with a Muslim? That is the very spirit of Antichrist. That is the very spirit of Satan. That is a satanic mentality. Are you a Muslim now? Are you a socialist? Or are you this? Are you that? Perjury. The spirit of perjury. And we don't care. Do y'all do we understand that for every false statement that you make whether in secret or in public, do you know do we not understand that you are going to have to stand before God and explain why you said this of someone's character?

Why you said that that this person really deep down thinks this or says that? And even though he says, "No, I didn't know THE GUY BEFORE." YOU'RE LIKE, "NO, HE'S LYING and and I have evidence to prove it." Do you realize you guys that the spirit of perjury will get you lost? Do we not believe in an investigative judgment? Do we think that's a joke? Do you So listen y'all. Perjury is willing to lie under oath. Which means some of us are so deceived by the devil that we would be willing to risk our salvation to accuse another brother or sister and think that we can read their hearts.

Do we believe in in an investigative judgment or not? Because how can you be willing to risk your salvation by trying to read somebody else's mind and say, "Well, this is what they really think and what they really feel. I got the dirt on them." And even though they're saying, "Nah, no, no." Listen y'all, if someone accuses you of being an Adventist, I defend that all day long. If someone accuses me of of uh uh you know being believing in in uh um uh the Sabbath, I'll defend that all day. If you accuse me of believing in Sunday worship, how can I defend something that's not my position?

How can I do that? you guys, it is a spirit of perjury. And so many of us in the church don't even realize that we are working our way to destruction, thinking that we're doing something righteous. Let me show you. Come on. We're not done. We got more to go. Oh, you guys. You guys listen. Were there commands and traditions to be treated with indifference? In fact, let me go back. Let me go back. Yeah, here it is. The least difference of opinion expressed by Christ was an occasion for the Jews to resist and denounce him.

Wow. Does that sound like present day a lot of present day people within Adventism, y'all? At times they charged him with working miracles through Beelub, the prince of devils. The least mention of Christ as a light to the Gentiles roused to fury the NATIONAL PREJUDICE. THAT GUY'S A MUSLIM. I MEAN A GENTILE. DON'T you know Jesus? Don't you know what he's really trying to do? The worst passions of the heart were stirred. For the Pharisees had taught the Jewish people to despise and hate the Muslims.

I'm sorry, the Gentiles, the unbeliever, the atheist, the person that rejects God, the person that doesn't think God exists. They were taught to hate them. Were their commands and traditions to be treated with indifference and worse still to be brushed away as error? Was this man the son of a carpenter to be accepted as knowing more than the priests and rulers? They would show him that he could not take the people from them. They determined to put him to death. And you know what they started doing?

She says spies were constantly upon his track seeking to catch him in his words that they might find accusation against him. I'm going to tell y'all a personal experience. I got I got caught among sinners once and it changed so much in my ministry because people were like, "We caught you hanging out with sinners." I remember when the when the Black Lives Matter thing was happening and I was saying to myself, you know what, man, Black Lives Matter, I I they're trying to do right, but they don't have the answer.

They as an organization, they're not the answer. Like what they're doing is not the answer. The answer is only in the gospel. And you know what? What a perfect opportunity for us to show that listen, Black Lives Matter, uh um uh the NAACP, like they don't I mean, they're doing what they think is right, but they don't have the real answer. We have the answer. The answer to bringing unity between black and white, to bringing unity between all races, to let people know one race, many colors, one race, many colors.

The answer is the gospel. So, you know what we're going to do? Here's what we're going to do. We're going to hold a peaceful protest. We're going to let people know, hey, we know that there's an issue. We We get it. We understand. We're with you. We know there's an issue. But here's what we're going to do. We're going to take we're going to we're going to lead a peaceful demonstration. Then we're going to march these people back to our church. And then I'm going to preach to them the everlasting gospel.

And we led about 400 people back to the front of our church. a peaceful march and then they sat and listened to me preach the gospel and because the churches were closed because it was co people were like when your church opens up I want to come nah that's when I crossed the line you guys I was caught with Gentiles I became a black lives matter supporter, which I never was. I became a Marxist, which I'm not. I became all I became a racist. I became so many things. And as I read this statement, spies were constantly upon his track, seeking to catch him in accusation against him.

I can kind of relate with that. How can we be treating one another in the church like this? How can we be actually in a m in a mindset of trying to destroy those that we disagree with? Floating rumors. Listen, floating rumors are often the destroyers of unity among brethren. There are some who watch with open mind and ears to catch flying scandal. They gather up little incidents which may be trifling in themselves but which are repeated and exaggerated until a man is made an offender for a word.

Their model seems to be report and we will report it. These tailbears, these YouTube channels, these Facebook posts are doing the work are doing Satan's work with surprising fidelity, little knowing how offensive their course is to If they would spend half the energy and zeal that is given to this unholy work in examining their own hearts, they would find so much to do to cleanse their souls from impurity that they would have no time or disposition to criticize their brethren and they would not fall under the power of this temptation.

The door of the mind should be closed against they say or I have heard. We should not, why should we not, instead of allowing jealousy or evil surmising to come into our hearts, go to our brethren. I saw a sermon you preached the other day, my brother, and I want to come to you and speak to you and ask you, do you really believe? Is this what you were say? Because maybe I don't know. And instead of me jumping to conclusions and saying, look at what pastor so and so preached. You know what? Let me go.

Yes, it's public, but because that's my brother and I love him, let me go to my brother in private. But you know what? It is a spirit of hatred. Y'all listen to me carefully. It is the spirit because I guarantee you, every person that does this, if it were their own mother, brother, father, whatever, their own family member, they would go to them in private and be like, "Hey, is this what you really believe?" Well, man, maybe you should, you know, because people are going to say blah blah blah blah blah.

It is the lack of love. Period. It is the lack of love dwelling in the human heart that allows people to do what they do when they do this unholy work. Why should we not instead of allowing evil, jealousy or evil surmising come into our hearts, go to our brethren and after frankly but kindly setting before them the things which we have heard detrimental to their character and influence pray with them and for them. Nah, nah nah, that's not good enough. While we cannot fellowship with those who are the bitterest enemies of Christ, we should cultivate that spirit of meekness and love that characterize our master.

a love that thinkketh no evil and is not easily provoked. So, so the Pharisees were unhappy with Jesus. They didn't like the balance. So, they wanted to try to find a way to begin to accuse him. And here's what they began doing. You guys, I want you to notice on the screen Luke 7:38. Listen to what the Bible says. So this woman uh uh stood at his feet weeping and began to wash his feet with her hair with her with her tears and did wipe them with her hair hairs of her head and kissed her feet kissed his feet and anointed them with the ointment and anointed them with ointment.

Now when the Pharisees which had bidden him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, "This man, if he were a prophet, would have known what manner of woman that is touching him, for she is a sinner." You get that? She's a sinner, not me. I'm not a sinner. And Jesus, if you knew better, you would not have been caught having this woman in your presence. That was a spirit of Satan. That was a spirit of the Pharisees. In Luke 15:1, then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him.

And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, "This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them." That was their complaint. Jesus, explain this picture. Explain this image. No, no, no, no. You owe us an explanation. Instead of seeing, wow, Jesus is connecting with them. What they chose to see was based on the evil intents in their own hearts. Explain it. Come on, I'm all ears. Why are you with these publicans and sinners? Luke 5:30. But the scribes and Pharisees murmured against his his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with publicans and sinners?

Don't you know who that guy is?" Listen y'all. Eating with publicans and sinners is one thing, but that's a Muslim. The spirit of Satan is running rampant in our church, in the hearts of people within our church. Why? Because people in our church have learned to hate. And I wonder where we got that from. We must be watching that occur someplace else. Cuz this spirit of hatred within Christians is it's it's unfathomable. Where are we getting the spirit from? And then we hide it under a disguise of righteousness.

We're just being righteous protectors of the truth. No, you're being satanic. That's what that is. Where where are we learning this from? Are we are we looking at other churches and picking up their spirit? Because it sure seems beloved, like that's what's happening. Proverbs 11:1 says, "A false balance is an abomination unto the Lord." A false balance is an abomination unto the Lord. And so when the Lord says, "Hey guys, this is my Here is where the the majority of my rebuke is going. and my correction is going.

And then there is where a little of it is going. Why? Because they don't even know the truth. But I have called you to be witnesses to them. That's why I put my attention on you. That's why I'm trying to train you to be like me. That's why I'm trying to train you to reflect my character so that they will see your light and come into the truth and become one of you. But what you're doing is you are exhibiting darkness to them. And beloved, I want you to understand that it is that mind that that deception that we can think we're in darkness while walking while while professing to serve Christ.

I need you to see this in John 18:28. Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas onto the hall of judgment. And it was early and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover. Do you see this? while claiming to not want to be defiled by touching or being in the presence of Gentiles, of Muslims, of unbelievers, of atheists, of the left, of the ungodly, of the Marxist, of the socialist, not realizing that that very spirit was defiling them already, but yet they had to keep the Passover.

Or how about this one? John 19:31. Therefore, the Jews, because it was a preparation that the body should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day, for the Sabbath was a high day, besought Pilate that uh that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away. And then they GO BACK TO TRY TO KEEP the Sabbath. We're observing the ritual, not realizing that your heart is defiled. When Mary takes the ointment and and and and anoints Jesus's feet, you know what Judas said? Here's what he said.

John 12:5. What? Listen. John 12:4. Then saith one of his disciples, Judas's Scariot, Simon's son, which should betray him. Why was not this ointment sold for 300 p and given to the poor? This he said, not that he cared for the poor. Not that you actually cared. Religious liberty. Religious liberty. That's an issue worthy of Sabbath of of of of discussion on Sabbath. Ellen White talked about the the the women's uh uh temperance movement and inviting them to our CAT meetings because it will be good to to make connections with them.

And yet we we we we how dare how when that's not really the issue. the real issue. Could it be possible that the real issue is is if that picture was with was with someone else that it would not have been a problem? Maybe someone of a different party. I had people say, "Why did you take a picture with someone of a different party?" I couldn't because they didn't come. They were invited. I would have loved to you take a picture with a Ku Klux Clan guy? Yep. Yes, sir. If I can make a connection with a Clue Ku Klux Clan guy and win him to the truth, you better believe it.

You better believe it, beloved. We don't seem to understand. So many of us don't seem to understand how much our crying out against politics is so hypocritical because we're actually guided by politics while claiming, "Oh, I'm not political, but why do you need to take a picture with this person and only that person?" Really? Really? Are we Are we being serious right now? God wants people on the left saved and he wants people on the right saved. And he has a pattern. God wants God wants Christians who are not of our faith saved and he wants unbelievers who are not of our faith saved.

But he says to the church, listen, I have called you to preach a special message to Babylon. Babylon is not the unbeliever, you guys. Babylon is the fallen churches. Why? Because the unbelievers are looking at the big at the largest group of professed followers of Jesus and seeing nothing but hypocrisy. And so we're trying to say, "Listen, y'all bigger body of believers. What you're doing is pushing them away. Here is the actual truth. That's why God wants us to focus over here." But no, what we're doing IS WE'RE ADOPTING THE HATRED of that bigger group of Christians and we're going, "Yeah, those evil unbelievers.

Literally not even thinking how Satan is just destroying the work that God has called us to do." We're not thinking. We're not thinking. Ellen White says, "The greatest deception of the human mind in Christ's day was that a mere ascent to the truth constitutes righteousness." In all human experience, a theoretical knowledge of the truth has been proved to be insufficient for the saving of the soul. It does not bring forth the fruits of righteousness. A jealous regard for what is termed theological truth is often or often accompanies a hatred of genuine truth as is made manifest in the life.

What does she mean? Here's what she says. The darkest chapters of history are burdened with the record of crimes committed by bigoted religionists. The Pharisees claimed to be the children of Abraham and boasted of their possession of the oracles of God. Yet these advantages did not preserve them from selfishness, maligny, greed for gain, and the basis hypocrisy. They thought themselves the greatest religionist of the world, but their so-called orthodoxy led them to crucify the Lord of glory. The same dangers still exist today.

Many take it for granted that they are Christians simply because they subscribed to certain theological tenants, but they have not brought the truth into practical life. They have not believed it and loved it and therefore have not receive the power and grace that comes through sanctification of the truth. Men may profess faith in the truth, but if it does not make them sincere, kind, patient, forbearing, heavenly minded, it is a curse to its possessor. And through their influence, it is a curse to the world.

Beloved, I need you to understand that I'm speaking with passion because what is happening in our church, when you make a man an offender because of a word, when you make a man an offender because of a picture, and you start to fill in the blanks and Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Really, I was checking it out and and him and this guy go way back. They actually really know each other. and we start going down the rabbit hole of the conspiracies. I'm telling you beloved, Satan is planting a spirit within the members of our church.

And if we do not wake up from it, you are running the risk of eternal loss. The spell that so many of us are under must be broken. This man ate with sinners and we now have the goods on him. Reviewing Herald June 2, 1896. Jesus was accused of eating with publicans and sinners at as though it were a crime to associate with the fallen. WHAT ARE YOU DOING with him? Jesus, explain. By this accusation, they insinuated that Christ liked to associate with the sinful and vile. He likes this. Deep down inside, this is who Jesus is.

And he doesn't even realize their wickedness and he was insensible to their wickedness. That's what she says. They really he really like he likes the publicans. This is evidence that he's unbalanced. He's rebuking us all the time. He's rebuking the church all the time. But he's not saying nothing to the sinners. If he were a true prophet, they said he would harmonize with them. Do what we want you to do. Preach what we want you to preach. Pastor, why aren't you preaching what I want you to preach?

If he were a true prophet, if he were a true believer, if he was actually present truth, he would harmonize with them and he would treat the publicans and sinners and Muslims and atheists and leftists and socialists and Marxists with the indifference they deserved. It angered these guardians. I never seen so many angry people in my life like I have in the last week. Wow. It angered these guardians of society that he with whom they were continually in controversy, yet whose purity of life a condemned them should meet in such apparent sympathy with social outcasts.

How dare you meet with a social outcast. No Adventist should be seen with a social outcast. They classed him with sinners because he associated with sinners. But Jesus did not seem at all abashed by the charge. He looked keenly at his accusers and said, "I came not to call the self-righteous but sinners to repentance." They passed by the very ones who needed help, who would receive the light that they rejected, who were near the kingdom of heaven, nearer the kingdom of heaven than those who looked upon them as sinners, whose society would contaminate their morals.

You guys, Ellen White is a prophet, y'all. She is a prophet. She says, "Yet we should not exclude ourselves from the world, for our Christian experience is to be the light of the world." This exactly what I've been trying to say, you guys. We should not exclude ourselves from the world, for our Christian experience is to be the light of the world. The society of unbelievers will do us no harm if we mingle with them for the purpose of connecting them with God and are strong enough to spiritually withstand their influence.

It was taught by the Jews that before God's love is extended to the sinner, he must first repent. He must first cease to be a Muslim. He must first cease to be a leftist. He must first cease to be a socialist. He must first cease to be a Marxist. In their view, repentance is a work by men which earned the favor of heaven. And it was this thought that led the Pharisees to exclaim in astonishment and anger, "This man receiveth sinners." According to their ideas, he should permit none to approach him.

Why'd you take a picture? He should permit none to approach him but those who had repented. This is why Jesus says, "Beloved, many will say in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not in thy name cast out devils and in thy name done many wonderful works? Then I'll profess to them, depart from me. I never knew you." I need you to understand that people who claim the name of Jesus and yet do not have the character of Jesus will be rebuked by Jesus when Jesus comes again. All right. So guys, now now I'm about to show you something and please lock in.

We can now see why the books of Daniel and Revelation focus not on the atheist, not on the socialists, not on Marxism, not on communism. It focused on a counterfeit Christianity. And you'll remember in Daniel 7:25 that this little horn power, the Bible says, would speak great words against the most high and would think to wear out the saints and think to change times and laws. And many of us understand that what this little horn power was doing in changing times came up with two new schools of thought.

Futurism saying, "No, it's not us. The enemy is in the future." Predtoism, no, it's not us. The enemy is in the past. The thing they were doing was they realized that 80% of the warnings of the books of Daniel and Revelation were pointing to them. And so they were trying to move the finger from them and say, "NO, GUYS, LOOK, THE enemy is over there. The enemy is in the past." In the very same way, in the very same way, could it be possible that the second power that comes up out of the earth that is that claims to be a Christian power, could it be possible that the devil is working through that power to create enemies that aren't really the enemies?

They are not the main enemies. Beloved, I need you to understand that that that what Christian nationalism, what modern Christian, what apostate Protestantism is doing right now is they're saying, "Listen guys, the enemy is atheism and socialism and Marxism and Muslims. And those are the people we need to be aware of." Why? because a devil doesn't want the world to realize that the real adversary is actually working under the disguise of Christianity. But God knew that. And so he raised up a movement to say, "Guys, stay focused.

I need you to call out Babylon because nobody else is going to do it." the rest of the Christian world, they're calling out socialism and they're pretending that these are the enemies when you know that the actual enemy coming at the end of time will be under the guise of Christianity. So, so my Adventist church, I need you to lock in and stay focused. But you know what? Many of us have been drinking the wine of Babylon and are now demanding that God's 8010 scale become 5050 or better yet 9010. That's what's happening.

So now you don't speak about about atheism enough and you don't speak about homosexuality enough and you don't speak you don't condemn the homosexuals enough and you don't condemn the atheists enough and you're unbalanced because you're not doing what the other churches out there in the world are doing. YOU'RE WHY ARE YOU SO focused on apostate Protestantism? Why are you so focused on this second beast? Leave the beast alone. Why don't you go deal with with a that's balance. No, beloved, that's apostasy.

That's moving away from the working of the spirit, the spirit of God. It's it's ratio in the Old Testament, in the in the Gospels, in the New Testament, in the great controversy, in the writings of the spirit of prophecy. They It's It's the same thing all across. And now we want to change the ratio. Now, we want to get mad when our message is preached. How are you gonna get mad about somebody preaching Revelation chapter 13? Because you're like, "Well, you're not being balanced." No. No. When you drink the wine of Babylon, you no longer know what balance is.

You are off balance. You are drunk with the wrath of Babylon. And the wrath of Babylon is a wrath directed at the Muslim. It's a wrath directed at the atheist. And now you've adopted that wrath. That's a Muslim. What are you doing with them? That's an atheist. Oh, that's the left. What are you doing with them? CC. You would take a picture with a left, but you wouldn't take a picture with the right. Stupidity. Foolish arguments. not realizing that both souls need to be saved. You're you're willing to extend context to individuals who it may easily be said, "Oh, they're racist."

No, no, no, NO, NO, NO, NO. IT'S THE CONTEXT, CONTEXT, CONTEXT. But all you need is one one thing for a fellow believer in the Lord, for a fellow believer in the faith and be like, "See what we've been telling you. I told you. I told you. It was just a matter of time. I I told you." But let me tell you something, you guys. Satan will never trip up the work of He may trip us up. He may trip me up. He may lead us to make decisions that we're not the best. He But he'll never trip up the work of God.

We can say amen and hallelujah to that. My thing is let us not help Satan in his Let us not help Satan in his work. Because who but Satan would want to destroy the character and the reputation of fellow believers in the church. You help me understand that that is the work of the enemy. That is the work of the devil. We're getting ready to close you guys. I need y'all to understand this. Uh there have been apparitions of Mary and in these apparitions of Mary, I'm not going to go into in fact let me let me just I'm going to pull one up here.

This is from the Fatim one of the Fatima visions and I'm going to put it up on the screen. You'll see it here. In an interview in 1946, Fatima Seir Lucia dos Santos said, "What our lady wants is that the pope and all the bishops of the world consecrate Russia to her immaculate heart on one special day. If this is done, she will convert Russia and there will be peace. If it is not done, the errors of Russia will spread through every country in the world." Asked whether this meant that the entire world could be overrun by communism, Lucia said yes.

Lucia was also asked about whether the United States would also fail into fall into communist hands. And again, her reply was yes. Listen to me, y'all. There are administers who are taking this this prophecy from Mary seriously, who really believe that communism is an endtime player and could very well take over America if we And you guys, it's it's absolutely mind-blowing that for people who have been given the that she says almost nothing about communism or Mark. If she's a prophet, we would expect her to be able to warn us along with Daniel and along with Revelation of what comes at the end of time.

But here we are embibing in Babylonian wine and now actually talking about, hey, our greatest threat is communism and Marxism and pastor, why are you always talking about apostate Protestantism? In fact, pastor, you're in apostasy because all you talk about is prophecy. Is it It's stunning that my whole ministry is based on warning against the separate separation of church and state. Now, there's some articles out there that are like, "Pastor blurs the line of separation of church and state." No, no context.

Just hey, context doesn't matter right now. What matters right now is we want to do the work of the enemy. And that's the most important thing. That that's that's a very dangerous spirit, you guys. And it is a spirit that is running rampant in our church. It is a spirit that is being directed. Listen, I know that you listen listen y'all. Somebody needs to say something. This spirit needs to stop. This spirit of blood searching of of of of looking for blood because that's what it is. We're looking for when ah we got the dirt.

Ah, look what we're making people offenders for a word. And the spirit of cannibalism needs to stop you guys. Ellen White said this. As the storm approaches, a large class who have professed faith in the third angel's message, but have not been sanctified through obedience to the truth, abandon their position, and join the ranks of the opposition. By uniting with the world and partaking of its spirit, they have come to view matters in nearly the same light. And when the test is brought, they are prepared to choose the easy popular side.

I need you to understand what the easy popular side is. The easy popular side will be apostate Protestantism. That is the side she is saying that many Adventists will join with. Why? Because they so connected themselves with their same spirit with the spirit of wrath and the spirit of anger and the spirit of hatred towards the non-believer and the Muslim and the homosexual and the atheist that they lost the character of Christ and now they have become so united. Listen, right now you have Adventists protecting and defending apostate Protestantism, saying, "Stop preaching about that.

Focus on the things that really matter. You're not being balanced." Revelation 18:2, this is our closing verse. This is our next closing verse. Revelation 18:2, the Bible says about this Babylon, this Babylon the great is fallen has fallen and has become the habitation of devils and a hold of every foul spirit and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird. I need you to understand beloved that Babylon is filled with a hateful spirit and many of us have adopted that hateful spirit. It is seen. It is publicly seen.

People are spotting it. It is publicly being manifested and towards God's church and towards God's people. We have been called with a message to give a message that says, "Come out of Babylon, my people." That's the message. That is the message. If Jesus said this, "You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hid." If Jesus says, "We're the light of the world, and everyone who professes Christ is supposed to be the light of the world." Then would it not make sense that when the light of the world gets it together, the Gentiles are going to come?

Would it not make sense? Isn't that what God said? Isn't that why God focuses so much on Babylon? Come out of her, my people, and get into the real light so that the loud cry and the Gentiles can be converted unto truth. Isn't that what it's all about? Beloved, I'm making a special appeal. And that appeal is this. We need to put down the cup of wrath. We need to put down the cup of of of of wickedness. We need to put down We need to focus on cleansing our own characters. We need to focus on preaching the unadulterated truth.

We need to stop with this false balance. Well, you talked 50% about this. Why don't you talk 50% about that? Jesus didn't do that. The disciples didn't do that. Ellen White didn't do that. Stop with the false balances and begin to follow the leading of the spirit. The ratio is there for us. Turn your weapons away from one another and let us focus on the mission that God has called us to do. that a lot of the these things Oh, pastor Myers, he was standing with this guy. Never never said go check out the sermon.

never said, "Go listen to the sermon that he preached." A and and and and those who do who one individual actually said in his sermon, he did not talk about the sins of ungodly people and therefore the sermon is apostasy. You guys, we are we are drifting very far away from the ideal that God has for his church. It is time to put down the cup. It is time to stop doing the work of the accuser of the brethren. And it is time for us to be about our father's business to win souls to speak truth and to be the light that Jesus has called us to be.

That is my prayer. And I'm going to put that I'm going to ask you to put a one in the chat. Pastor, that's me. I've been drinking that cup. I've had the spirit of anger. I've had the spirit of of wrath. And I don't know where it came from. And along with that spirit of wrath comes a spirit of accusation. It was in the Pharisees and it's in many of God's people now. And and we're making stuff up in our minds and filling in blanks to things that are not reality. and the devil. This is the way the devil is going to lead so many who claim to believe in present truth to ultimately join with the enemy at the end of time.

We ought to be praying for one another and not praying on one another. Lord, forgive us as a people for seeking Whether that is because it brings views or whether it is because it makes people feel like they are standing up for present truth. Lord, rebuke that spirit. Lord, what the enemy has taken for evil, Lord, please turn that to good. to teach us how to plead the fifth when it comes to our brothers and sisters. Teach us, Lord, to be willing to give the benefit of the doubt to go talk to the individual, Lord.

But but but Lord, please put that spirit of love within us because that can only come from from the spirit of love and so many of us are lacking that love as a result of it. Lord, this claiming the truth becomes a curse to those who don't have the spirit of love and it is a curse to the world through their influence. Lord, please forgive your people. Thank you Lord for hearing this prayer and Lord may we be about your business is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen and amen. May God bless you as you continue to draw closer to the Lord.

May he bless you and keep you. We will put the link uh to the afterglow uh in the chat and uh we want to encourage uh our members and anyone who would like to to come and join us as we fellowship. We'll talk about the Sabbath school. We'll talk about the divine service. Again, may God bless you and keep you. Amen. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God.

It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.