Welcome Living Mana Church family. It's so good to have you here with us. I feel like I was just here like maybe 12 hours ago, which I was. We were doing some um some programming last night, but we are happy that you are here with us today. Please continue. I have to say continue to put in the chat where you're viewing from and then put a one if this is your very first time visiting with Living Mana Church. We want to tell you a little bit about who we are and hopefully you will be so blessed that you'll want to come back and worship with us again.

So again, please put in the chat where you're viewing from. I know you guys have been on here. We started a little late today. So, I'm going to go through and see who has already put in the chat where you're viewing from and ah I don't see I see a lot of you guys are talking and conversating which is great. Love to see the fellowship with Living Mana Church. I don't see a lot of locations. So, please let me know. I know you guys are somewhere so just let us know where you are so we can say a special uh welcome to you.

So, Veronica, welcome. and you're coming from Washington State, the beautiful state of Washington. Uh we have the UK here. I'm sorry the name went up faster, but I saw the UK. We have Christie from South Carolina. Good to see you here. Uh let us know if you guys were here last night when it wasn't for Living Matter Church. It was for Power of the Lamb live event, but we did the third three third part series of the T horns. Let us know if you were there for that and you're here. Welcome again from Wuhan, China.

You have been worshiping with us uh lately. You were here last week. Good to see you here. We have Rose from New York. Great to see you here. We're happy to have all of you here. Um we have British Columbia, Canada. Welcome. Have Zambia. Welcome. Good to see you. Love to see all the different countries and of course the states here in the United States. But we are an international online church and we just love to see so many um different countries and places. I saw Kenya just went up, New Jersey, France.

Guys, we are worldwide today. >> We got all these continents going on and all over the place. Let's see. Um we have Canada. Yeah, good to see you guys. Welcome. >> Amen. >> Amen. It's good to have an international church. get to fellowship with people from all around the world. It is truly a blessing to have you here and we are thrilled to have you. >> Yeah. >> San Jose, California where we came from. >> Right next door, next little town over uh Ethiopia. I have to say you're not a one Ethiopia.

I don't think I've ever said welcome from someone to Ethiopia. So, if this is your first time the person from Ethiopia, please put a one. Welcome. So good to have you. Uh, Northern California, welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome to all of our viewing audience. Wow, that's great. I'd love to know if Ethiopia is a one because I don't I don't know. In four years, you could forget. It's almost four years. I shouldn't claim four years. Almost four years, but I don't remember saying a welcome to someone from Ethiopia.

So, that's great. Oh, wait. Somebody from Pine Forge. Welcome. my high school I graduated from. Do I know this person from Pine Forge? Is this my dear friend? It went up so fast. Okay, >> there it is. Right there. >> Yes, it is. Andrea Young, yes. I thought it was you. Welcome. Good to see you. We have to talk. I haven't talked to you in a while, but it's good to see you. Yes. I was hoping somebody was from Australia, and there you are. Brisbane, Australia. It's another continent. Wonderful. So good to have you guys.

We are. I mean, we're always worldwide, guys, but we are really worldwiding today. I just made that up. We're really doing it today. Oklahoma, good to see you. We love our uh our peeps in America, too. So, good to have you here. >> Love to do all these welcomes. And unfortunately, we started here late and we have to get to some things. I must get to them. But it's good to see you here. Long Beach, California. Good to see you. And is E. Uh, yes. Praise. It went up so fast. Ethiopia said, I think that's a one.

Praise God for you. Oh, no. Somebody's saying, "Welcome to the person coming from Ethiopia." All right. Well, if this is your first time, you're going to learn about us. Uh, that's brother Terry saying it. Um, so you're going to hear all about us today. You'll get to learn at the beginning of the divine worship service. So, stay tuned because you'll get to learn every a lot of things about us there. um and so and see if you are interested um in some different small groups and ministries that we have going on or different programming that we have going on during the week.

But stay tuned because you will hear all about that at the beginning of the divine worship service. >> And I and I will just say since you brought it up, those of you that haven't uh were not able to see the presentation from last night, >> uh we definitely encourage you to go back and check it out. As you see people are commenting in the chat. >> So um go check it out. It's three parts. It was amazing. >> Um, and last night was the >> the third part. >> Part three, >> the temporary finale. >> Yes.

Welcome from Greece. I'm sorry. Some are coming up as you're talking. >> Yes. And all right. And from another part um Southeast Queensland, Australia, we have quite a few Australians >> um worshiping with us today. Welcome, guys. I know it's it's early early Sunday morning where you are. It's like 3:00 a.m. I think. I think I think I think so. Um, but we love visiting Australia and our time there. So, welcome. Good to see you guys here. Never been to Brisbane, though. Never been to Brisbane. Okay, Ethiopia, it is your first time.

Welcome. You are going to learn so much about Living Man Church. It's so good to see you here again with us. We actually have to do um a second and first reading for a membership. Uh tr one is a a first reading coming in and um one is one second reading >> second reading going out >> and Lisa yes the slides are now available on Patreon. So um right under the um the description of the video you'll see the link to the slides. >> All right. Okay. So, we have unfortunately one going out, but she's still our viewing audience, but she's going to be working with the local church in Brazil.

And this is Kayla Mahesia and she's transferring from LMLC to um I it's in the language and so um I don't want to mess it up but to uh a church in Brazil and yeah central de Santa Teresa that I can say Brazil but the first one I can't really say so in Brazil. So this is the second reading for her >> and the first reading uh to LMOC from Jason Diggs from um the Kat Katosen View 7th Day Adventist Church. Kosen View. >> Okay, >> that's what it looks like. It says Ktosen. So that's the first reading for Jason.

And for Kayla, this is the second reading. So we need to um Well, you need to make a motion. So, we'll make a motion to accept Kayla's transfer out of Living Mana. Um, we're going to have one of our members um uh make the motion and then someone else second and then we'll go ahead and vote that through. So, um I know you guys are a little bit delayed. Um, and by the way, while we're waiting for that, um, I do want to just ask everyone if they would, um, just pause for a second. Well, not even for a second.

Throughout the s the the service today, I'd like for you to uh, lift up, it's a very special unspoken request. Um but um we have a a a situation with one of our members and we just want to lift uh that particular member in prayer. So we can't say anything um you know publicly but we would definitely like for you to just be praying for this special member um at this time >> in their situation >> at this moment. Yeah. >> So we do have a motion. >> Yes, we do. Um, and uh, do we have a second? Okay, so we've got a motion.

We're looking for a second. >> I second it. >> Second it. Yeah. >> And, uh, we'll go ahead and, uh, take the vote. So, all in favor of um, Kayla's transfer um to her church in Brazil. Just go ahead and put that one in the chat. And uh sis, if you're watching, of course, you know, we're going to um we will uh miss you, but we know that you're not really going anywhere, >> right? >> Um so, >> just off the books. >> Yep. >> But presently here. >> Yes. >> So, okay. Uh one in the chat and the ones are coming in.

So, I see them. >> I see them. I see them. So, uh it is official. Um and uh Sister Kale, may God continue to use you and bless you in the local church there. >> Um >> absolutely. >> And uh use you as a light to to continue his work. >> Amen. Amen. Um, we have Sister Denise to bring on, but first want to do the t-shirt message. >> Okay. Pray, wait, trust. God has a plan. >> That is very simply said and I've of course worn it before um but it just we can never get enough of this message because um as you know we are very anxious people.

You know, I think since sin has entered, we're very anxious people. >> Uh, we worry. We try to take things in our own hands. We don't wait. We don't trust. It's just like just stop and be still. I should make a t-shirt out of what I want this verse I want to say. Um, but and I don't know where it's found, but where it says I think it's in Psalms, but you can correct me or somebody can correct me. Um, wait, wait, I say on the Lord. Meaning, >> it's almost like he's overemphasizing wait like when you don't know the direction God wants you to go in or if he if you don't know what to do next, seek him continually to seek him.

be very just be very let to have spiritual ears to hear him and and he may speak through situations or through certain events or things happening you know you know but the Holy Spirit I know my experience I can't speak for everybody but I don't you know I'm sure like >> I feel the Holy Spirit impresses things on my heart like be emotionally sensitive like it the Holy Spirit is so soft and gentle this is my experience that even and a lot of times it's going against what I originally think I want or what I need to do.

The Holy Spirit will come so softly and it's so lovingly and kind and gentle, but you feel so compelled >> to go that way. I still have a decision. I can still make a a different decision what the Holy Spirit wants. But it's a certain way the Holy Spirit just relates to us as humans. And again, I'm speaking for myself. I don't know what everybody's um I know God's not a boring God that he does things the same way. So I don't know if the Holy Spirit approaches everyone the same way, but I know that's the way he does for me.

>> So wait, trust God has a plan. >> Somebody needs to hear that today. >> I always have to hear that every day almost. So, all right, we are going to bring on we're going to start um may not be every Sabbath, but we're going to be highlighting different ministries within um the LMLC church. So, you guys because sometimes, you know, just so you will be aware of what's going on and what the ministry is doing. And so, Sister Denise is going to come on and talk to us about the um Living Mana newsletter that she is a part of producing and putting together.

So, we would like to invite Sister Denise on at this time. >> Hi. >> Hello. >> You know, >> how are you? I'm fine. Thank you. Hello, pastor. Hello, first lady. >> So, we can't hear you. >> It's okay. It's okay. We do have them. They're right there. We were so busy making sure we were miked and the audio was good that we forgot we had a guest. All right, we we will hear you. We see you smiling. The audience sees you smiling and they can hear you, too. So, >> now >> they're gonna can say, let's see.

All right. >> Now, right. >> All right. We can hear you. >> Yes, we can. Okay. So, >> you can hear me now, right? Yes, we can hear you now. So, tell us all about the newsletter. Tell the audience all about the newsletter. >> So, Living Mana Online Church now has a newsletter. And it's considered a slice of Living Mana. It is called Mana Connect. And what we do at Mana Connect, we are a unique ministry that actually allows connection. Think of it as a newsroom for excuse me all the ministries. It's a opportunity for inreach and outreach.

>> Okay. All right. So, um it's so so the and so how do um members or viewing audience get to see this newsletter? Like how can they >> how do they get connected with LMLC connect living connect? Yes. Absolutely. So to get connected to manic connect we have several ways. You can either reach out there should be a link coming up in the chat and you can reach out and click the link in the space for >> Okay. >> You can also if you are connected with our text text the letter text the word actually newsletter.

>> Okay. You can also email the newsletter at newsletter living mana church living mana.urch. You can also in about a week or so be able to go right into our church platform, our church home mighty network and there will be a space that will be created just for you the viewing audience being able to interact with the newsletter. Learn more about the newsletter, ask questions about the newsletter, tell us what you want to see more in the newsletter. A great way to connect with our contributors, uh, to glean more information, and really have the opportunity to interact, to grow, and to learn together, and to really have that inreach and outreach that I believe is so vitally important to the church.

That that sounds wonderful and I love that it's going to be on Mighty Network so that they can they can read it and see it there um or I'm sorry view it and see it there um as well because that is our virtual church home. And so when they're there they can see uh the newsletter and then also see all the other things that are going on on mighty networks especially if they're new and they can really learn about the church. So that's an amazing way. Um or you like you said they can get it emailed to them or if they sign up for um to get text alerts that if you text what was it again?

If you text what word? >> Text newsletter. Newsletter. >> News. Just newsletter guys. Don't forget it. Just text newsletter. Um and then you will be able to get the newsletter. And this is coming out once a month. >> It comes out once a month. In fact, our January letter has already been is already out. And it's wonderful. I mean it's so funny. pastor was speaking yesterday about religious liberty and Shaunin who's my partner in the newsletter Shaine did an article on religious liberty warning and it's just amazing to see how the Holy Spirit especially in this church more than I've seen anywhere else really is on the same wavelength when it comes to the messaging >> that we want to share with people uh the love that we want to expose people to the inclusivity that we have here at Living Mana.

And that's why for me, Mana Connect is so such an easy extension of who Living Mana is. So, I I want to put a plug here. Uh if um you are interested in submitting a story, contributing, being part of the newsletter, you have any questions, this is a wonderful outreach evangelical ministry as well to share with people who aren't necessarily Adventists or Christian, >> right? an opportunity to see who we are, that we aren't cult, that we aren't fuddy duddy, that we are just people like you going through the same ups and downs.

Check out what the men's ministry did as far as their article and where they are as far as their walk. Look through um what's in your trunk with sister Joanne. Uh we have a photo of theology app for uh that's a wonderful app that pastor does that we use for our game section. Um, please come be part of this ministry because this ministry is a part and extension of you. >> Okay. And I heard you have a video and I want to say Mental Health Monday wants to uh write something too. We >> But I guess Wonderful.

>> Yeah. Yeah. That'll be in one of the editions. It doesn't have to. Yeah. Let I love that the men's ministry is is doing has done something. But you have a video that uh you want to >> I believe there's a video. Yeah, that would be great to run right now. >> In a world filled with noise, uncertainty, and constant motion, God still invites us to pause and be fed. Mana connect is more than a newsletter. It's a place of nourishment, connection, and spiritual renewal. Each month, Mana Connect brings our church family together, exploring faith, strengthening values, and walking boldly in truth during critical times.

From men breaking bread in brotherhood to voices of encouragement lifting hearts, ministry is alive, active, and growing through messages like what's in your trunk. We're reminded that freedom begins when we release what God never asked us to carry. With upcoming events, featured media, and a thriving online community, Mana Connect keeps you connected to what matters most. Because this journey of faith was never meant to be walked alone. Mana connect, nourished by the word, strengthened by community, connected through Christ.

All right, that's Yeah, that's wonderful. That's exciting. I know our viewing audience and members are looking forward uh to continue to get Mana Connect. So remember guys, uh you can um text uh newsletter if you've signed up for text alerts or you hopefully in a week or so you'll be able to uh get it through um you will you can also get it through email and then you will and then you will will be getting it you can also view it on mighty network. So we are just happy about uh mana connect that's exciting uh that we have a newsletter.

Uh, Sister Denise, if you're if you're still there, do you have any closing words for us? >> No, I actually the only thing I would say to the audience that's listening is to please feel free to ask any questions. Feel free to visit, feel free to um provide insight in regards to the newsletter. And please remember that the newsletter is an extension of the Living Mana online church ministry. We just want to be the eyes and the ears and we just want to bring this message of love and prophecy to the world.

Thank you so much for giving us the opportunity to do that. >> All right. Yes. Thank you for doing that. It's a blessing. >> All right. Well, thank you again and I think we are going to open for prayer so that we can officially start um our Sabbath school and answer some of your questions. This is a question and answer. Um I'm doing mental health questions. Pastor is doing Bible questions. Um I'll be also taking some mental health or relationship questions in the chat. I don't know how many Bible questions you have, but you know, feel free to like ask questions in the chat like you know you're this is together.

This is Sabbath school. We're doing this together. So, um, if he's answering something, if I'm answering something and you have a follow-up question, please ask it in the chat. We want to, uh, do this together. >> All right. So, we're going to pray and and start start our Sabbath school, start answering questions. >> Yeah. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for giving us this opportunity, Lord, to to come together, to study together, to pray together, Lord. And, um, Lord, as we open this SA school uh, with question and answers, Lord, we pray that you would guide our thoughts.

And Lord, I just want to lift up um uh the situation with one of our members, Lord, and just pray that >> your spirit will will would intervene, Lord, and just um >> send the spirit of peace, of comfort, Lord, and um just again, Lord, intervene in that situation. Um and remove the plans of the enemy. >> Um confound them, Lord. and remind us, Lord, that all things work together for the good of those that love you. So, Lord, we we lift this prayer um and trust it will be answered because we pray it in your name.

Amen. And amen. >> All right. So, you're going first. >> Do you want to go first? >> Uh no. >> All right. No. >> Um so, uh once again, you guys, you know, feel free to to put questions in the chat. I'm going to start with um this question on Revelation chapter 10. So it says in Revelation 10, the angel tells John to prophesy again. If the Millerite movement fulfill the first proclamation, what exactly is the full scope of the again? And how do we know when that second proclamation is fully complete?

So to give a little bit of uh background um in Revelation chapter 10, there is uh a vision of John receiving a book from an angel. Um John is told to eat the book and as he eats this book, it's going to be sweet in his mouth but bitter in his belly. So he takes the book, he eats it, and then he says, "As soon as I ate it, it was sweet in my mouth but bitter in my belly." So it tasted good, but the experience afterward was a bitter one. And this is what we typically describe as uh the great disappointment um of 1844.

Um and we don't just kind of pull that out the hat, right? There's context to this vision. There is timing to this vision. In other words, this vision uh takes place at a particular junction in the book of revelation that lets us know it is exactly around this time period that this event is happening. Um and so uh this great disappointment was the understanding that in 1844 Jesus was going to come again. This was not an adventist teaching. This was a teaching that was being proclaimed by people from various denominations um across America and around the world.

And so when October 22, 1844 came and Jesus did not come, it was a great disappointment, >> right? You would think that with such a an event like that happening, this would be the end of whatever movement was, you know, associated with that. >> Instead, that disappointment has become one of the cornerstones of our church, right? M >> the idea that you must prophesy again was almost as if the angel was saying listen >> you're going to have an experience. >> Um in fact in that same chapter there seven angels that utter something and then they're told to seal it up.

Don't write it. >> So here is something now that has not been revealed. It is spoken but not been revealed. And the angel says, "Eat this book. It's going to be sweet in your mouth, but experience is going to be bitter in your belly." >> And that almost verbatim describes the experience uh of 1844 where you have this great this this what we suppose was a failure of prophecy, but there was something that the people of that time did not understand. >> There was something that the pioneers did not understand.

And it was only afterward that they gained understanding of where they went wrong in the prophecy. >> And as a result of this this prophesy again would happen almost immediately after the great disappointment. >> We've got understanding now. We understand what happened and now everything makes even more sense. >> We got to go forth with this message into the whole world. The end of this second proclamation which is going on right now is the second coming of Jesus Christ. >> Right? And that is the context of Revelation chapter 14 >> which says, "I saw another angel um uh coming down from heaven having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that d on the earth to every nation, kindred, tongue and people."

This is that second proclamation where this message is to go into all the world with the correct understanding of what happened in 1844, which by the way is what opened up the heavenly sanctuary. Mhm. >> Um I will say this that uh the the prophecy concluding in 1844 had its initial fulfillment like the first part of that prophecy was the 70we prophecy which pointed to the first coming of Christ. And if you look at the events of that first coming of of the uh surrounding the first coming of Christ and compare them to the events surrounding 1844 um and they're both one prophecy.

So the 2300 day prophecy the the first 490 years of that prophecy leads to Christ. The remaining 1810 brings you to 1844. If you take those two benchmarks and look at the events that happened, they parallel in an uncanny way. And what I mean by that is that as you look at the disciples, they thought that the 70we prophecy was going to be fulfilled in Jesus setting up his kingdom on earth. Mhm. >> And even though Jesus told them, "I'm going to die. I'm going to die. I'm" They just didn't believe it, they were like, "Uh, yeah, no, something else going to happen."

Their understanding of prophecy was off. So when Jesus died, it led to a great disappointment. >> Right. And this great disappointment should have been the death nail to the movement. Jesus is dead now. >> Right. That's it. Like go home. There's nothing left. But instead it becomes the very cornerstone of the early church. Why? Because Jesus two days later he's raised from the dead. And it is two disciples walking on the road to >> Emmas >> that have an encounter with Jesus where they begin to understand where they went wrong.

Mhm. >> Just as after the great disappointment, there were um two men walking across the cornfield ashamed, embarrassed because they had gotten the prophecy wrong >> because they believe they had gotten the prophecy wrong. When as they were walking across that cornfield, the revelation that the sanctuary was not the earth, but that there was a temple in heaven. Mhm. >> And this is what was occurring in 1844. Jesus moving from holy to most holy place ministry. That realization was like, we got to go prophesy again.

We got to go tell the world. >> And as you can imagine, when the disciples are talking about Jesus has been raised from the dead and he's in a heavenly temple now, >> you can imagine the gains saying, "Sure, this is a face saving effort because you were wrong." And all of a sudden now, yeah, Jesus is in a heavenly temple. >> Come on, y'all are making stuff up >> to save face. >> Save face, right? >> Um, which is exactly what they said about the Meerite movement >> uh post 1844, right? And they say to this day, you guys are making stuff up because it's just your way of saving face.

Mhm. >> But what are the odds that the ending of the 70 weeks and the ending of the 2300 days, which is part of one prophetic time prophecy known as the 2300 day time prophecy, literally parallel >> in such an uncanny way. >> That is beyond coincidence. Mhm. >> So, uh long answer to that question, but uh hopefully you understand now what the prophesy again um ma uh means. Let me just tack on to this. How could a non-adventist be convinced of prophesy again being applied to 1844? >> So, I would not Oh, and the fact that they don't believe anything about the meite movement.

Yeah, I wouldn't I would never share something like that with someone who is not first convicted about 1844. So, I would never start there. I would start back in Daniel chapter 2, >> right? Because let me let me add here, okay, that when whenever you're discussing 1844, I was watching a um uh one of these anti-adventist um videos uh that came out just this week, actually, >> just recently. And uh the the guy was speaking about Daniel 8:14 >> and how it has nothing to do with um with uh you know what Adventists say it has to do with um and that the little horn is is Greece and it's not Rome and Rome has nothing to do with Daniel chapter chapter 8.

M >> um and I was like, man, that that is that that's a wow. That I was just like, wow. Like, >> how do you walk away from the Bible with those kind of conclusions, >> right? But you know what's interesting is that he started in Daniel 8:14 without really unders I'm not going to say without understanding but in order to rightly understand Daniel 8 you have to first rightly understand Daniel 2 >> and Daniel 7 >> and Daniel 9 and Daniel 11 because the entire book of Daniel is is a it is a doing it.

It's not just separate prophecies here and there. >> The book of Daniel has one prophecy. >> That is it. It's one prophecy >> that goes into more detail as it moves. >> That's right. every chap Daniel 2 7 8 9 and 11 are all giving you different views >> and and different um different >> greater detail >> greater detail of the very same >> Right. >> So if you get Daniel 2 wrong, you get everything else wrong. >> Right. Right. >> So where would I start? I wouldn't start by saying, "Oh, did you know that the prophesy again um was referring to the Meerite movement?"

That just seems like, "How could that be? You're making that up." No, let's go back to uh Daniel 2, build on Daniel, build on Daniel 2, then Daniel 7, then Daniel 8. And once you can get a person to understand why Daniel 8 is connected to Daniel 7, connected to Daniel 2, >> then you've set the foundation for them to understand the deeper things of the book of Revelation. >> So because I only listened to little a little snippet of that that you were listening to. So I'm just hearing this for the first time, too.

So for them, they want to put grease in there. So that takes >> correct >> it off of the little horn. >> Yep. So >> why do they want to do that? Yeah. In order for >> I mean so where do they put So they so they put instead of the little horn they put it on Greece, >> right? So >> and where does that take them? >> Yeah. The time of the end >> I'm saying after that after they put it there then what? Like that doesn't make sense. So >> the time of the end is Greece. And so what they do and this is this is called predtoism.

This is what this is. >> What they do is they say in Daniel 2 it's Babylon and then me and then the Median Empire. the me the Mes >> and then Persia and then Greece. >> So they separate the Mes and the Persians >> to make them two different kingdoms so that they can end with >> and if you end with Greece in Daniel 2, then you can end with Greece in Daniel 7 and you can end with Greece in Daniel 8, >> right? But if Daniel 2 doesn't end with Greece, if the Meo Persian Empire is one empire according to the Bible, >> then where they say when ne when Babylon falls, your kingdom is given divided and given to the Mes and the Persians, >> not to the Mes but the Mes and the Persians.

Then Daniel 2 must end with with Rome, which means Daniel 7 must end with Rome, which means your interpretation of Daniel 8 only ending with Greece really >> is not consistent >> and get you in a lot of trouble. >> Right? So, um, in essence, y'all, Daniel 8 or or that >> Revelation chapter 10 prophecy is like it's kind of like the trigonometry where you want to start with, you know, the basic math of Daniel chapter 2, >> Don't introduce someone to trigonometry before they learn the basics of the of of math, right?

Okay. >> So, Daniel 2 78 and then that's how I would approach uh that prophesy again >> to a non-adventist >> to an adventist. Yeah. >> All right. It's been a lot of time here, but okay. Let's look at some of the questions that you guys have sent in for mental health or relationships. So, there's a question here. It says, "Many teens today feel torn between honoring their parents and trying to figure out who they are. How can a Christian teen set healthy boundaries, express their emotions, and develop their own identity without feeling like um they are being rebellious and disrespectful?

Very good question. Very good question. So, um first of all, I it was interesting how this question worded it. said, um, "How can how can Christian teens set healthy boundaries?" And really, it's how and really when I when I hear that, I'm thinking, how should uh Christian parents adapt to their children when they become teens and set healthy boundaries? Meaning, and I said this last night at the end of it, you know, our children are not born Christians. They're not born Seventh Day Adventists. Now, we teach them from a young age like this is God.

This is let's pray. Let's, you know, this is Bible stories. We take them to church. This is Sabbath school lessons, whatever. You know, we're teaching them all these things. But you have to give them space to make their own decision to choose God for themselves. And sometimes they have to figure things out. And as Christian parents, um, we don't give them that space. And that causes them never to really choose for themselves to have that intimate individual relationship with Jesus that's outside of their parents.

Um, and so for the Christian teen, I mean, in some cultures, it's very difficult to stand up for yourself as a Christian teen. Even if you're trying to be respectful, they think the mere fact that you're even respectfully asking for anything is disrespectful. And so you guys, maybe some of you that are in that are part of those cultures know what I'm talking about. Um, and so, but it's still that's the way you're supposed to do it is to um come to a parent and and let them know that they you believe in God.

You you want a relationship with God or you're you're seeking that out, but you're also trying to figure things out. So just parents allowing their child to have open honest communication and not condemn them or not like freak out if they say like I'm trying to figure this Christianity thing out. I'm trying to even figure out my belief in God out. Give them space to do that because and it's God's responsibility to prove himself to us as individuals. You know what I'm saying? That's why the Holy Spirit comes and is our comforter and our friend and you know it's like God is wooing not just us but our children to him.

So kind parents after you kind of help lay a foundation for them, step out of the way a little bit. Of course, they're in your home and there's there are rules and you know, you're not going to just allow everything to go just abs. They're teenagers, but you still can step away. They're not little kids anymore. So as your children grow up, you have to you as they get older, you have to pivot and adjust. I think that the burden is more on the parents. Even though this is supposed to be a teenager asking, the burden is more on the parents for they have to adjust to where their their child is now.

They're not little kids anymore. They're teenagers. Respect that stage of their life. And then as they become young adults, you're going to have to pivot and respect that stage of their life. And when they become adults, married, have their own children, you have to respect that stage of life as well. So it's I feel like the >> like we have to do that learning curve like as soon as they come into this world our whole focus is just like keep them alive and teach them about Jesus you know as Christian parents >> um and so we and then there's a point where we have to like okay they're becoming older we have to love them the best thing parents Christian parents can do is to have an authentic relationship with Jesus themselves and have the character of Jesus and the way we're treating our children that that is enough in itself to introduce the proper uh Jesus to them and for them to want to know that Jesus because you have modeled the character of Jesus and you live the character of Jesus every day before them.

So >> that's the answer to that question. All right, I want to go ahead and jump to this question uh in the chat and uh it says, "I have a question, pastor, about the conclusion from last night with the 10 horns. Uh what were you trying to conclude with the spiritual application of how it connects with the final events uh for today or now?" Um, so for those of you that didn't watch last night's um message, >> I don't know how well I'm going to be able to like, you know, juice this down. >> Well, it'll make the other ones curious, be like, "Huh, let me go see that.

Let me go check it out." So um in essence uh the the the point that I was making the the the argument I was laying out was that in the Old Testament, right? We talked about these three stages of this abomination of desolation like event. First in the Old Testament connected with the 70 years and the 70 weeks, then with the dark ages and finally at the end of time. And what we saw across all three was that just as and we used the parable, you know, we basically were t using the parable of the when an unclean spirit leaves um is put out of a is put out of a man that when he comes back, he's looking for his house and wants to go back into his house.

He finds it empty, swept, and garnished or swept and garnished, but it's empty. and he brings seven other demons within with him and it makes the first state of the man worse or the last state of the man worse than the first. So we took that analogy and we were like this happened with Israel when they allowed idolatry into the house of God into the temple specifically and God allowed Babylon to in essence enter into that temple as a result of their sin and destroy the temple and they serve 70 years in captivity.

When they come out of captivity, this is synonymous with the demon being cast out, if you will. Babylon is fallen. They get to go back to the house. They they they fix the house up, right? They rebuild the temple. They furnish it. Uh it is swept. It is garnished. But they're now waiting for the presence of Jesus. >> And in waiting for the presence of Jesus, uh when Jesus finally comes, they reject him. And so Jesus says, "Your house is left unto you desolate. your house is left unto you desolate.

Here's what we see here. Number one, that between that time of the of the of the children of Israel coming back into the house, they had learned their lesson about idolatry, about paganism, and they in essence build up this intense hatred for paganism. But they felt that all they had to do was hate paganism. And that is what constituted righteousness. So when Jesus comes, they reject him. He's not in the house. Their whole religion is based on how much you hate how much you hate paganism and how much you hate the Gentiles and how much you hate the idoltors.

This is a form of godliness without the power. Right? And and basically what I was showing was this is how the devil operates both in the last prophecy for Israel and then we see it during the dark ages >> where the early church did the literally did the same thing. I'm talking about the early church of the you know in the days of Christ. I'm talking about 300, 400, 500 AD on into the dark ages >> where they began this culture war of overthrowing pagan idols, you know, trying to get pagans out of their country, >> out of their nations because now to them nation is the new house.

>> So we got to get the demon out and the demon was paganism. So whereas paganism allowed religious liberty for everybody around them, when Christians got a hold of that, >> right, >> religious liberty for nobody but the Christian, >> and what happened in in the church of the dark ages is they believed that their hatred for paganism amounted to righteousness with God. >> They didn't have to be nice. They didn't have to be holy. They I mean, they didn't have to, you know, care for people. All that was all that was important was we're getting rid of paganism out of the nation.

Out of we're getting rid of the pagans. That is what righteousness is. And of course we see Jesus calling that very system the abomination of desolation. So then how does this tie into what's going on today in our society with apostate Protestantism? They are doing literally the same thing. Mhm. >> They believe that their position their positions against the pagan, right, >> against the atheist, >> qualifies or qualifies, I should say, for righteousness, >> so hey, as long as I hate the, you know, the the people that I think have want nothing to do with God, as long as I hate the atheists, as long as I I'm on the right side, side of the culture war, then I'm righteous with God.

>> And this is what Christianity has boiled down to today is, you know, if you got the right positions, then you're holy and you're on God's side. >> That is not righteousness, right? That is false righteousness. That is the abomination of desolation in its final iteration. And that final iteration is not full. There is more coming. The seven other demons or I should say the three unclean spirits like frogs >> will be the final event that fills the entire house with so many demons that it cannot be counted.

>> Right? So, in essence, that was the the basis of last night's message was we saw it in the rejection of Christ. We saw it in the dark ages. And what we're seeing now in American Christianity is literally a repeat of the abomination of desolation during the dark ages and of what the Jews did in the, you know, in the in the years leading up to Christ. >> Okay. So hopefully that puts a bowl on what I was teaching last night. Um just so it can be clear in your mind, right? >> This is what we were showing uh in that study >> in that part three.

>> Okay, I have one in the chat. I have more here, but that have come in, but I have one that was just live in the chat. And because this is interactive and Sabbath school, I want to to meet you guys where you're at because who knows if the people that ask these other the questions are here. You're here. So, okay. All right. Uh, my two brothers and I have been uh praying about six years for a rift in our about a rift in our relationship. Recently, one brother stopped praying because it seems very clear my brother I'm assuming you're talking about the other brother is a narcissist.

Advice. Well, um, first of all, I don't have a lot of information here to confirm that, and I wouldn't do that over the air anyways to, but to even have an idea if the brother is a true narcissist, I have to say that's a term that is thrown around so much. There are criteria that needs to be met to really be diagnosed with to be a narcissist. But in this in our this day and age and in our culture, like growing up, had had you ever heard the term narcissists? We had no idea what that was. However, but there are true narcissists.

There really are. We Okay, I was going to say something, but I'm going leave it there. But we have experience that here in America on a regular basis. We see things like that. So, but there are there is criteria to be a narcissist. And your brother may not he may or he may not be a narcissist, but you're seeing characteristics of narcissism or some of the traits that um make up a narcissist. And truly, you're doing all that you can do. You're praying. You're still praying. the other brother. Um, you could encourage him to continue to pray because there's nothing that you or your other brother can do to change the other brother that you believe is a narcissist or at least has those characteristics um of a narcissist.

So, I'm sure the other brother in your and you and your other brother's eyes is very difficult to deal with, is not very humble, maybe is so prideful, can't see what other people are trying to say about things, and the list can go on and on and go on and on. Um, honestly, that's all you can do. Even if a narcissist is prey, even if a narcissist comes into therapy, there's work that a therapist can do with the narcissist. it is a uh real uphill steep battle if you will because um it's it's the way their their brain is wired and a lot of and and then when you study narciss narcissist um behavior it does come from um a lot of times it comes from a trauma that um that person has experienced earlier in life, early childhood trauma, early childhood trauma.

um and these thoughts and the way that they the way that they think and the way their brain is wired started at a much earlier age and so that's a longer process to be able to work that through everything it everything is possible by the grace of God so anyone can change nobody is stuck in one behavior I would say working with a narcissist is a much more challenging work so for you and your brother you pray to the most powerful God to help your relationship with your other um as much as possible.

And then as it gets closer, hopefully um if you ever have an open door, you can encourage him uh to to also seek help and maybe as you're praying the holy he'll respond to the Holy Spirit and just want to uh work on his relationships with people and that will lead him to want to get help on his own. So that is the answer I can give for that. Totally switching gears here into a relationship question. Since you took two, I think I'm taking two. All right. So, it is okay. This person is asking, "Is it fair to expect someone to make extra efforts to rebuild trust after it's been broken, a sort of probation, or once you make the decision to forgive, should the person have a clean slate?"

So once you have decided to forgive, yes the person has a clean slate but a clean slate to every day show you that they are that they appreciate your forgiveness, your grace that you've extended to them and every day they have a clean a clean slate to show you that they have really changed and that they are sorry for what they have done and they are distancing themselves from that behavior. behavior to ever hurt you again. Does that make sense? >> All right. So, that's that's a lot to say about that.

>> So, it's fair to expect you should see change. You should be seeing change. >> Um Yeah. All right. Go ahead. >> Okay. Uh so, in Daniel 12:4, knowledge increases at the time of the end. How do we distinguish between human technology and advancement and the spiritual knowledge God intended and what biblical criteria determine what increase fulfill which increase fulfills prophecy? >> So, um you know this is something that a lot of people have, you know, talked about. Hey, here's a sign of the end times.

Uh knowledge is increasing um and look at what's happening with technology. Mhm. >> But um I don't believe the Bible is talking about technology um in Daniel 12:4. What I believe the Bible is talking about is the knowledge of the gospel increasing. Jesus says right this gospel shall be preached in all the world uh for witness and then shall the end come. So according to Jesus Jesus's own words, the sign that the end will come is the knowledge of the gospel going into all the world. That fits Revelation chapter 14 uh verse 6 and 7 um which again points to the everlasting gospel going to every nation, kindred, tongue and people and an understanding of what the actual gospel is.

Right? So it's not an increase in technology is leading God to say, you know what, it's time for me to, you know, to come and end this all. Um, no, it's not it's not about technology that goes into the that increases as a sign of the end times. It is about the knowledge of the gospel. And remember um that during the dark ages the knowledge of the gospel had been perverted, right? And so it would make sense that if if there was darkness in the dark ages, then after the dark ages, light would be going into there would be an increase in light, right?

and an increase in understanding. And that's what we see happening. We see it happening today. Um I think as we are studying our own message, we're seeing deeper levels of truth that verify, right, the word of God. Um yeah, Charles, knowledge of prophecy. Knowledge of prophecy. Knowledge of prophecy. Knowledge of the plan of salvation. Um this is the knowledge that the enemy I believe is trying to keep away from the world >> to keep the world in darkness. >> Um so again that is the uh that is the the knowledge I believe is being increased.

Next I'm going to talk about uh this is a a question about marriage and the question is actually let me pull up um I can't find that other question. Yeah, I was going to do two questions in one. But uh okay, let me talk let me speak to this question and it's about uh what does the Bible say about being unequally yolked and you know is it all right for you to marry someone outside of your faith? Um so that's a question that is that I think is is you know a lot of people have that question on their mind.

>> Um so several things here. uh you know some people will say well the Bible says do not be unequally yolked with unbelievers. So the question now becomes what is an unbeliever? Okay. >> Um and you might say well if we both believe in God that should be good enough >> well then for some people that may mean that you know uh a Muslim can marry a Christian >> because they both believe in their minds in the same God. And some people say, "No, we don't believe in the same God. So, you know, that would not be appropriate because we have different faiths."

>> Um, well, then what about uh a Jew a person of Jewish faith and a Christian? >> You know, would that be acceptable? And again if you know for the Jewish person who says I don't believe you know in Jesus as the Messiah and the Christian saying I do believe in Jesus as the Messiah. You know the thing that you that you need to understand when you're yoking yourself up with someone. Yeah. Can two walk together except they be agreed? Mhm. >> The thing that we need to understand is that remember this is that when you get married, you're talking about bringing kids into the picture.

And you know, if your message as parents to your children is, hey, you know, religion, you can be what you want to be. You can be what you want to be. Like in our minds, it's not that important. >> They're going to walk away with, well, yeah. Yeah. You know what? my mom was this, my dad was this, and it didn't really matter. So, it doesn't really matter. Now, if that is your position, then it would be consistent for you, right, to be willing to marry someone outside your faith if it's like, oh, it's not a big deal.

Mhm. >> But if your position is that what we have is biblical truth that should not be compromised in any way, >> then now you got to ask yourself, am I willing to send the message to my children? It's one thing if you're already married, different story altogether. But if you're not married, you got to ask yourself, am I willing to to put my children uh in a position of showing them, hey, it doesn't really matter if for me it does really matter, >> right? Um so you might say, okay, well, yeah, they have to be Christian.

>> All right, so now let's break it down to the Christian category. Okay, so you're both Christian, but one is Catholic and one is one is Protestant. one believes that you, you know, traditions matter. The other one believes that it's the Bible only. >> Again, how do you bring children into a situation where if you have that kind of conviction, you're like, and you you want to pass that conviction on to your children and of course you're not God. You can't force your children to do anything, right?

>> So, keep that in mind as well. We're not saying you forced your kids, but what I am saying is that the message you send um to your children is really very important. Not the message you send to the world, >> right? To those who are looking at your example. Um, Samson was probably really in love with the woman who was totally, you know, like, >> hey, I really, really, really want to be with this woman even though she is not one of us. >> Um, and I'm not saying that that always, you know, >> sometimes miraculous things happen.

Uh there are people who get married who are on different pages when they get married and by the grace of God they get on the same page, >> right? So it's not a cookie cutter thing of this is what's going to happen if this happens. But understand and I want to bring it down to to the most basic level. Let's say you're both Adventists. Let's just say you're both Adventists, >> but one of you is like, "Yeah, you know, church, whatever." >> And the other one is like, "We're really about, you know, I'm really about church."

>> I would say y'all are probably not the best fit, >> Because >> Yeah. to be unequally yolked like that. >> You could be unequally yolked in so many different ways >> and still say that you're you're you belief system is still a part of the same religion, but >> your individual walk is not >> the same. >> Yeah, >> I want to say good information. I just want to say um >> on top of all of what you already said, >> uh >> hold on, hold that thought. >> Okay. It's it's one thing if you know you you're talking to someone who they're like I'm really interested in this and you know I'm talking about hey I'm Baptist and I'm going to be Baptist or I'm Methodist I'm going to be Methodist and nothing you say is going to change that it is what it is right that's what I'm talking about that situation because I understand >> there's different scenarios and different and nothing is a cookie cutter case >> but I'm talking about I'm I I guess I'm speaking in the extreme of and it's not an extreme but I'm saying all right here is a person who says I am comfortable in my faith and I will probably never become your faith right that's what I'm addressing >> and then you got to ask yourself am I willing to take this risk of setting this kind of example for my family that my love for person a was greater than my desire or my love for God, >> my love for truth, >> right?

Those are the questions you got to ask. >> And again, even if you're in the same system and you're on two different paths, >> Those are the ones that end most in disaster. >> You're the same faith. You're just like, "Okay, we're equally yolked." Not realizing you weren't equally yolked. >> You weren't really. I just wanted to say on top of all of that good stuff that you already said that, you know, most of the divorces >> I'm gonna have to go fast. >> Most of the divorce is happening in Adventist churches is not because an Adventist is married to a Baptist or >> it's Adventist divorcing Adventists.

So I just wanted to like really illustrate that point. Right. >> So I'm not saying, okay, that's an excuse. What I'm saying is >> you can be unequally yolked even within the same religion. And if that's the case, how much more if you're not the same religion, right? >> Well, people are getting divorced for a lot of different reasons, >> right? Not for religious reasons, unequal yolk. >> Hey, my lifestyle is this, your lifestyle is this. We're in the same church. We're in the same church, but you're more this way.

I'm more this way. And that causes >> problems. Right. >> I was just going to say, you're not allowed to touch me. I'm just kidding. Um, I was going to say that, you know, marriage, um, marriage is very marriage is beautiful and it's wonderful when you're married to the right person and it's still hard. >> I just think the way that's the way God designed it. There's some things that he wants to teach us. Um, and even though you're both committed to to God and you're and you're striving for the same thing, it's beautiful and wonderful, but you're still going to grow and learn and sometimes learn some hard lessons >> um that can can only kind of happen when you become one with a person and you have to uh have that self-sacrificing love and and learn how to um just learn how to um not be selfish and work with another person um that you love but you don't see eye to eye with all the time.

I'm not talking about being equally yolked and all that. So, I'm saying >> that's on a normal marriage. It's it's great. It's loving. It's it can be wonderful and then it's still hard, but it's a beautiful thing. It's a be you have so much beauty in it that even those hard things you you go through you live through because it's such a wonderful thing. And then if you go through those hard things and you're not equally yolked, like you can't come together and pray together. I can't imagine if I was a Christian and you were not a Christian or um you wanted to go pray I guess I mean you wanted to go pray to Mary instead of us praying to the God of heaven together about something.

how difficult that would be because when we are going through difficult times I'm just using that as an example guys I'm just using that as an example when we are going through difficult times or want to pray need to pray together it is comforting when we both have the same belief system and go before God together it gives peace um in the marriage that you've brought your issues together with your spouse and laid it at the altar and you can you can walk away with confidence that God is going to do something >> absolutely you still have blind faith, but you can walk away confidently with blind faith that it's going to be done.

So, just wanted to add that little >> uh spiritual caveat on all of that. So, >> um and I will just say this as well. Um so, Les Leslie, I don't know if I said your name right, but uh wow. And I'll just leave it at that. I will just say wow. And I'mma go check that out. So her question was >> I was like do we know what you're talking about? I totally missed it. >> Yeah. She said pastor the fact that the Lisbon that Lisbon is in is the city of Portugal which was responsible for the terrible persecutions of Christians >> in your opinion would that would you attach that earthquake to God's punishment.

>> So I've just never even thought about that before. >> The great Lisbon earthquake, right? Okay. Um I'm going to go I need to look at some time uh time factors but uh that is a very interesting observation. >> All right. Have another relationship question and it's going on um trust. I think this is a faith and trust deal. Okay. uh day. Let's say it says, "How do you rebuild emotional safety in a marriage when forgiveness has happened but trust hasn't returned at the same at at the same pace? Um what does healing look like when both partners are trying uh but the hurt still shows up in everyday interactions?"

Okay. So I guess what this person is saying is they've forgiven uh their spouse, their partner in the relationship, but they're still not uh trusting. So again, not having a lot of details, not knowing the timeline, if this is a a recent like, okay, I'm forgiving him or her uh but I still don't trust. So rebuilding trust is a process. kind of goes back to that other question about uh forgiveness that I answered earlier. So when you are uh the person that has inflicted the uh pain and caused the partner not to trust when that partner again decides to forgive you um like I answered in the other question, you have a clean slate, but now you have a clean slate to show this partner again that you are terribly sorry.

um that you every day uh by God's grace are starting that day off to show them that you are trustworthy because you're a changed person. Um and so even though partner that was hurt, even though you've forgiven that partner, for you to trust, it's going to take a process. And so if it's a new situation that has happened, um you're not just say, "Okay, I forgive you." And then you automatically just trust. Again, you it's a daybyday um situation where the more you see them uh being transparent and uh just not hiding anything or just ba in a balance going over not over the top in a bad way, but going over the top and showing you that um you're not keeping any secrets or you're an open book.

you're always knowing their location. And you know, I tell my uh married couples when they're in therapy with me and there's no there's both always know the the passcode to um the the password or passcode to the phone to the email. Well, not that you're going in there stocking looking for something, but if you have to happen to go into their phone for something or go into their email for something or whatever, there's total transparency on both sides. In marriage, you don't keep secrets. You both get to know there's just no secrets.

Like, there's just no secrets. And so, um, as long when you're learning how to trust again, total transparency is key to beginning to build that trust again. And um, and that the partner that's having to to be trusted again, they're okay with that. They're like, "Hey, I'm an open book. I'm a changed man. I'm a changed woman. I my goal in moving forward and being with you is not to ever hurt you again. So I have no problem you reading myself, you reading my texts, you reading my emails, you you know coming to events with me, whatever.

I am an open book. I am here for you. Once you're seeing that type of behavior for some time, the trust is being built day after day after day. So trust can be torn down in a moment and it takes time to build it back up again. Um, and I do just want to point out, I don't know if uh uh Sogfic, I don't know how to how to say that, but um I I see you in the chat. I see that I don't know if this is your first time watching with us. Can you can you let me know is this your first time? if not, I just want to welcome you.

>> Uh he's uh he's actually I think you're Catholic. Is that right? I look up here. You said you were once Protestant, but now you're a Catholic. So, um, uh, if that is if that is the case, either way, >> I just welcome you to to to to >> to to joining. I welcome I welcome you um, joining us today. If it is your first time watching, >> LMLC church welcomes you. We're thrilled that you are here. >> Yeah. Yeah. Uh, and if you need to reach out to me for any reason, you may. Smile. Smile. All right.

Um, so was was that your >> Yeah, that was the answer to that question. >> Okay. Um, so let me I'm going to do one more question. >> Uh, and do you have another question you're going to do or >> um I might be able to do a quick one. We'll see how long you do how long you are. So if the great controversy began with questions about God's character, why does scripture say that sin will not rise a second time when free will will still exist in the new earth? What guarantees eternal loyalty loyalty without removing freedom?

so uh okay, I see you. I don't even know what I'm just saying. S O Gf so fig. I don't know if but I see you. I see you. Okay. Mhm. so here is what happens right the the reason sin will not rise again a second time >> is not because God suddenly takes away uh freedom of choice. Right? Um it is as a result of our experience with sin we will never want to touch it experience it again. when when you experience the loss of a loved one, that uh that pain I think in and of itself would be enough for most people to in heaven say, "I never want anything to do with sin again."

But the real thing that is going to keep everyone from sinning again is what Jesus endured on the cross on our behalf. >> Right? Our love for Christ, what he went through on our behalf, suffering what he did not deserve to give us that chance to live forever and ever. Um remember this, angels are in heaven right now and angels have freedom of choice. Angels are not automations. Angels are not robots, >> right? They freely do the will of God. And so the idea that wait a minute, you know, like how is how is that going to work?

It's working right now, right? There's no angel after Lucifer's rebellion that was like, man, I should have went with Lucifer. >> Get get me out of this place. Right? Um, in the same way in the new heaven and earth, uh, there will be there will be no rebellion because of the marks in Jesus's hands will be the reminder of the cost of sin. Right? >> The fact that Jesus retains his humanity forever in heaven, that means he's forever a different creature, if you will. He's still absolutely divine, but he will have humanity with as a part of him where that was not the case before he came to this earth.

That sacrifice in and of itself, which really angels did not know. Mhm. >> Um the Bible says that angels desire to look into the things of salvation that that we are now experiencing because they have never experienced loss. >> That is the holy angels righteous. They've never experienced loss. When we get to heaven by the grace of God, >> sin will not be a desire. There will be nothing pulling at us to say, you know what, you really should. >> It'll it'll all be gone, >> right? And and there will be no curiosity as to I wonder what will happen if I disobey God.

That question is not going to be >> we will all we know what happens >> through experience. We will know. >> We we through experience we know. So, >> that's interesting when I just thought about you answering that question just made me think like when God says he'll wipe all our tears from our eyes um after after everything um is done, but we'll never forget. We're never going to forget. >> And that's a good thing. >> That's a good thing. >> No sin in heaven. Um, I could answer another question, but because our time has gotten away from us, I can definitely carry it into uh the next question and answer uh period.

But we are just thankful for all of your questions. Um, by God's grace, hopefully we answered them um to where it was helpful and bene beneficial to you. Um, we are getting ready to go into the divine worship service. Don't want you guys to go anywhere. We know we have some first- timers here uh today and so please continue to worship with us. Can you tell us what your message is about today? So, uh, the message today is entitled the trans Christian movement. And I know you're like, trans Christian?

What in >> for our first timers who don't know about you? >> For the first timers who don't know about me, about my style of preaching, you will know that uh, it's not what you think. Mhm. >> And um I I believe you will be by the grace of God as you listen to this message, you will see that it is a message that is desperately that is needs to be heard by a lot of people who claim to be Christians. Okay. All right. >> So yes. So, please continue to worship with us. Like, subscribe and share. Those three things like the uh channel you are watching.

Um >> Living Mana on Living Mana YouTube channel. Yes. >> If you're watching on on Power of Glamb YouTube channel, >> like and subscribe, but >> we're we're talking more service. >> Yes. And Yeah. So, like, subscribe, and share uh with your family and friends. invite them to church and to come into worship with you as we are about to go into the divine worship service. So, don't go anywhere. >> Okay, let me say one last thing. I know >> uh cuz I see that there's a there's a question here that speaks to what we were talking about earlier.

My wife is Baptist SDA. My concern is if she doesn't believe what I believe, how would that affect our relationship spiritually? So, remember that Paul when he's counseling, this is not for believer and unbeliever, right? someone who is married to someone who is who doesn't believe the same as as that person. He says that's not a cause for divorce. >> Okay? >> It's not. >> So please understand that. And then please understand that through the grace of God, right? Um you can get to that place where you are you are on the same page.

But it can't be by force. >> No. >> It can't be by argument. No. >> It's got to be by prayer. >> Right. pray, study, communicate, >> love each other. >> Um, but don't walk away thinking, "Oh, well, if I'm married to someone who is who doesn't believe as I do, that that is grounds for divorce because it is not. >> It's not." >> I have a story behind that, but I won't share it right now. I don't think. Okay. I guess I am. my my greatg grandmother, loving, beautiful woman. Um was married a second time.

Um and when she got married, she was an Adventist. She was not uh but she became Adventist. And at that time, one of the I think it was a local elder, I don't think it was, I don't know, it could have been the pastor or elder, but they told her that she's Adventist now, so she has to get a That was bad counsel. >> And my beautiful, loving, so spiritual, godly great-g grandandmother did what she thought was right because the godly counsel from men of God uh told her to do that. Um she had a great marriage, wonderful man.

She loved him and it was it really um emotionally hurt her a lot to do that. So, I'm just saying that um that was something that I'm thinking now this was like in the 50s. >> Yeah. In the 50s. Um and so that was just some very very bad counsel. So that's just letting you know that you are married. Um and um this is something that God wants you to just show your spouse uh his character and his love. And so and God will do the rest. and you just keep loving and being that good person in your marriage.

Um to be that example um and you said he's a Christian as well. So um by God's grace he's loving you. I said he did. It was a husband. I just don't know why I assumed a husband. By God's grace by God's grace he's that that partner is loving you as well. Um and just treating you well. So um >> yeah be an example and pray. >> And love each other. >> Yeah. All right. Now, can we pray? Okay. >> Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for this question and answer session, Lord, we thank you for so many visitors uh that we have uh here today, Lord.

And um I just pray that you will continue to bless this worship service. Help it to be a blessing to all that are here now and all that will hear it later. We ask all these things in Jesus name. Amen. I have one more thing to say. I'm glad our team did not switch us. um was um to our Catholic brother who's visiting us for the first time. Can our because you said to reach out to you, but he doesn't have any way to do that. So, I was wondering if our team could either put my church email in the chat or yours.

Um because I don't Yeah. So, can you guys do that for us so that he can um so he can reach out to pastor? If he send it if he sends me an email, I'll just forward it to to pastor. So, yeah. So, our Catholic brother who's visiting, look out for that email. And if you need if you would like to message the pastor, you can do that. All right, continue to worship with us. We will see you in the divine worship service, don't go anywhere. all the trees in the kingdom of the plants, there's one that stands out from all the rest.

In some parts of the world, this tree is venerated, even worshiped as deity. In other parts of the world, it is seen as a natural jungle gym just waiting to be explored. It is the home of many birds, a shade for weary travelers, and a natural playground for the children of men. Of all the trees on God's green earth, the mighty banyan is definitely one of my favorites. Now, there are several things that make this tree truly unique. The bold banyan begins its life by growing off of and deriving nutrients from another tree.

This tree is called the host tree. The mighty banyan sends down roots from its branches all around the host tree. Over time, it completely overtakes the territory of the host tree and cuts off its supply of sunlight. It's like the banyan completely swallows up the host tree, and the host tree forever becomes a part of the banyan. Once the roots of the banyan hit the soil and become well grounded, it then grows into strong trunk-like structures that support the quickly extending branches of the banyan, thus enabling the branches to spread out far and wide.

It looks like a large system of multiple interlocking trees, and yet it is only one singular tree. As I walked under the shade of the mighty banyan and climbed upon its sturdy branches, I couldn't help but think of the many spiritual lessons this tree teaches us. You see, the banyan is able to live because of the host tree that gave up its life. And just as the host tree died so that the banyan tree might live, so too, there is one that died so that we might live forever. Jesus died on the tree of the cross so that we might have life everlasting.

But the banyan tree takes away life only to give it back in rich fruit. So too, we derive our life from our creator that we might share it with those around us. And once we are rooted and grounded in Christ, we're then called to bear the fruit of the spirit to the glory and the honor of his name. The unique root system of the banyan tree is also reminded to us of the ultimate root, Jesus. The book of Revelation calls him the root of David, the bright and morning star. Although the root is the most unsightly part of the plant, it is also the most powerful.

It not only sustains life by bringing nutrients to the branches and leaves of the tree, but it also holds up the massive weight of the tree. Massive rocks and concrete slabs are torn apart by the noless power of the root. Hidden beneath the soil, its power is mighty. And so too, the power of the root of David hidden in the heart can break the strongest bands of sin. It is the root of David, Jesus Christ, that gives us life and holds us up as trees of righteousness. Like tree roots, he's not always seen or noticed, but surely he is there.

And by the power of that divine root, we shall be able to withstand all the storms of the enemy. For the Bible says that the root of the righteous shall not be moved. So today, I encourage you, let Christ be the root and foundation of your life. And as you do, you will become a fruitbearing shelter in this unsafe and starving world. A strong, solid, sturdy, and stable sanctuary of refuge for others. And with strong roots and sweet fruits, you will be just like Jesus, who sent his roots down from heaven to earth, that we might be forever connected, just like a heavenly banyan tree to our wonderful God above.

We hope you've been blessed and inspired by this new Reflections of Hope episode. This episode is one of many that's been produced all over the world. If you haven't done so yet, please give our video a like, share it with your friends, and please follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and YouTube. If you'd like to see more inspiring episodes and get access to much more uplifting content, please go now to patreon.com/revelationof hope and sign up to be a member of our Patreon page. Your monthly support will not only give you early access to many more inspiring videos, but it will also enable us to continue to produce more of these cinematic object lessons from nature.

Our goal is to produce and release these episodes much more frequently. So please prayerfully consider partnering with us so that we may continue to share the hope of Jesus all over the world. Thank you so much for your support. Aloha and Marin Heat up here. Welcome back, Living Mana Church family. So good to have all of you here that are your continuing to worship with us uh today. We're so happy again to have you here. I know we have many firsttime people here today. So, welcome. And as I'm going through these uh announcements, I'll be able to tell you a little bit more about Living Manage Church and uh and that you will be able to to find out uh more about us and and different areas that you may want to check out um and to see if it was is a good fit or a blessing for you.

Please put in the chat where you are viewing from. If you're just joining us for the first time today, or if you didn't, put in the chat where you're viewing from uh during our first program, please do it now so we can say a special welcome to you. It's such a thrill uh to see where so many people are worshiping from today. We literally had so many people from so many different countries. Um it was just a blessing to see where everybody's viewing from. So, if you're just joining us or if you didn't do it at that time, please do it now.

And if this is your first time, please put a one in the chat. We want to say a very special welcome to you. I don't know about you, but I enjoy all the Sabbath schools, but I really enjoy the question and answers. It's so good to just answer what's on your heart and interact with you and be able to provide answers uh from the word of God. And so um I know that I enjoy answering the mental health questions and I know my husband does for the biblical questions as well. So, blessings, Joy. You're viewing from Barbados.

Good to see you here. Welcome uh to Living Mana Church. We also um have um someone visiting from Lach, Texas. Welcome. Good to see you here um at Living Mana Church. We have Spring Hill, Tennessee. Welcome to Living Mana Church. Good to have you here with us and worshiping with us today as well. We have Dave from Barbados. Good to see you, Dave. Uh we have quite a few that worship with us from Barbados. Uh so that's we have lots of people from the the islands, Caribbean Islands. Uh but Barbados, we seem to have a lot as well.

And Texas and um I said Texas and Jamaica. That's what I meant to say. The person that I was going to welcome to is from Texas, but from Jamaica, we have a lot. Um and all around the Caribbean Islands. So we want to welcome. We have someone from Texas. Welcome. Texas is a big state. So, I don't know where you're in Texas, but you're you're somewhere in that big state. So, welcome to Living Mana Church. Also, Queens, New York. Good to see you here, uh, worshiping with Living Mana. Uh, we have the Bahamas.

Welcome, beautiful uh, Bahamas. Mario, I think, is here from the Bahamas. Good to see you here. We have, I think, Darl from New Mexico. Welcome. Good to see you here at Living Mana. All right. From Temple, Texas. That's where you're you're visiting from. Good to see you here at Living Mana Church. And we have Houston, Texas. Welcome. Welcome. It's good to see all of you here. Again, if this is your first time, put a one in the chat. But we thank you guys for being here. Don't forget to like and share and subscribe uh to the YouTube channel that you are on.

Um our YouTube channel for our church is uh my living mana. definitely welcome people to uh welcome people and invite people to church. Uh today we also have someone from St. uh Benedict, Pennsylvania. Welcome to Living Mana Church. Good to see you here. Shrivefeport uh Louisiana. That's where my grandfather was was born and raised. So welcome. Welcome here to Living Mana Church. Uh we have uh Janice from Bise. Good to see you here. Welcome to Living Mana Church, everyone. Warsaw, New York. Good to see you.

All right. Looks like our first timers were all in our earlier service. Um, and everybody else has been here for before. So, we're just glad to see you guys back here worshiping with Living Mana Church. Want to remind you guys how you can stay connected to Living Mana Church. If you are in North America, you will be able to receive text alert messages uh that will remind you when we're going live. will also provide other information to you and announcements. Um, if you sign up for text messages, so you can just text LMLC to the 855 number there that you see on your screen.

You can also scan the Q QR code and that will automatically sign you up to get text alert messages from Living Mana Church. It's so wonderful and convenient to get text alerts because we all know that life is busy. will be in the middle of things. We will think on Sabbath, hey, I'm going to make sure that I do mental health Monday or I'm going to go to true health Tuesday or I want to make it for prayer meeting to one of the services on Wednesday and we forget. But if you sign up for the LMLC text, you will be reminded you will be reminded that we're going live in about 20 minutes.

And so you're also able to get other information uh from living mana church that um helps you to just stay connected. If you are not in North America and you are somewhere else in the world where many of our viewing audience and membership is in other parts of the world, you need to sign up for Mighty Networks and Mighty Networks you'll see a link in the chat so that you can sign up and that is our virtual church home. So you will get information tech um you'll get those alerts through mighty networks and it's this is where we form community uh because you get to see all the small groups that we have going on um you get to see the leadership what they're doing you can join them you make you make friends in mighty networks you get to you get to know people that are part of our living uh mana community and so you have to sign up for mighty networks because you're you're going to want to do that if you were here earlier the newsletter will also So be on mighty networks and there's so many other things.

This is where we do our afterlow after the church service after Pastor Meyer's sermon. We are all on mighty networks and we get to share what we've learned, our prayer request. Um just it's really a blessing to get to know and to hear everybody's voice on uh Mighty Networks after uh the service is over today. So you're going to definitely want to go to that link and sign up for Mighty Networks. Want to remind you guys that we have LMOC kids. This is our children's ministry part of living mana church and we have great leadership there and it's such a blessing for our young people.

They are having fun. It's growing. They're learning so much. And so if you would like one of if it's one of your children or if you want to tell somebody else that has children about living mana kids, you can text kids to 855 that 2074107. If you are out of the country, um you can email LMOC kids at living.urch and the leadership from LOC kids will get in contact with you. If you need thinking that you need to talk to Pastor Myers and would like to meet with him, he does have f virtual office hours.

You can email Patrice at living.live and she will set up an appointment for you. wanting to just tell you guys about Hangouts. And so we're going to show a video at this time telling you a little bit more about one of our ministries called Hangouts. And that's what they do. We hang out and have fun. So here's a video that tells you a little bit more about Hangouts. >> Hello, I'm Ross. >> And I'm Gina. >> We're your hosts for Hangouts. Hangouts happens here every other Sunday. We get together on Zoom and we go into small breakout rooms.

The groups of 10 or less. Once you're in the breakout room, then your hangout host will lead you and the rest of the hangout crew in trivia, ice breakers, and games >> and much more. You know, we're here to have fun. God has fun. He invented fun. So come, let's have fun together with our creator and enjoy time with each other and with him. Thank you. >> We're going to have a a good time getting to know one another and everyone is welcome. So bring a friend. >> God bless. All right. We also um want to tell you about star um but I also want to let you guys know that hangouts is a lot of fun.

So definitely uh take down the information so you can be a part of the next one. All right. So star our support group is here to walk with you through the journey of addiction recovery. Uh whether you are just beginning or continuing the path toward healing, you're not alone. This is a safe, judgmentfree space to share, grow, and rebuild one step at a time. So, if you're interested um in STAR, they are now meeting on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Central time. Meetings are open to everyone seeking support, encouragement, and real connection.

Come as you are. Hope lives here. Also want you guys to know about glow groups. Glow groups are a small digital gatherings where we have deep uh or we dive deep, excuse me, into Pastor Meyer's sermons and the word of God together. These groups are designed for real connection, thoughtful study, and joyful fellowship. Members also begin using photo theology chat GPT to play Bible games and explore scripture in fresh interactive ways. If you are interested in joining or starting one of these housefires, email group livinga.urch.

Let's grow, glow, and go deeper together. Sounds like a lot of fun. Want you to know um about our about LMOC teens. Friday Night Lights isn't a Bible study. It's a movement led by teens for teens. This is uh where creativity, leadership, and faith uh collide. Expect good energy, honest conversations, and a space where you can grow without pressure or judgment. If you know a teen who's ready to tap into something real, tell them to be there um on Zoom on Friday nights uh Friday night lights. And so there is um information there on your screen where there's the email.

I want you to email if you have a teen or if you're interested uh if you are a teen and you'd like to uh get involved, email LMLC teens living.urch. Um they the leaders of LMLC teens did ask me a few weeks ago to have you guys um email them to let you know about what time uh it's going to be. It's not always on Friday, I don't believe anymore, just because they have young people from all around the world that are are starting to wanting to join. And so they are coming up with what time is best for everyone.

So definitely send an email to that email that you see there on your screen. Want all the attent all the department heads and ministry leaders. Uh we have some information for you. So all right. So it says don't forget your ministry has the opportunity to be featured in our 10-minute ministry spotlight during Sabbath service. This is our moment to share your mission, highlight what your team does, and invite the church family to get involved. You can choose one of the one of two formats. You can do a live interview like you saw today with Sister Denise in the newsletter.

Um, and join us during the service for a short conversation about your department. Um, you can do a pre-recorded video, submit a brief video introducing your ministry, sharing updates, or inviting your members and volunteers. This spotlight is a powerful way to raise awareness about your ministry, share upcoming needs or initiatives, recruit new members and volunteers, strengthen connection across the LMLC community. If your department hasn't signed up yet, now is a perfect time. Let's make sure every ministry has a chance to shine.

Contact GI Jones to sign up or learn more about the exciting opportunity. All right, do you guys remember weight training? Um, well, weight training was uh here at LOC. And if you've been hearing about Adam Patel's amazing classes uh for our El Moses or your or you caught the buzz about Pastor Ivorme's weight training, here's the truth. This is one of the most transformative trainings you'll find anywhere, and it's available exclusively through LOC. The full series is still accessible on our YouTube playlist featuring powerful guest teachers who who brought their own depth and fire.

Adam Tel, Adam Patel, Dakota Day, Loami Richardson, Calvin Kim. This isn't generic evangelism content. This is Alamosi crafted spiritual training designed to teach you how to share your faith with clarity and how to wait on the Lord with purpose. If you've missed it live, you can still tap in. If you watched it once, it's worth watching again. If you're if you're ready to grow, this is where you start. We'll drop the playlist link in the chat so you can access the full experience only here on LMC.

All right, guys. Volunteers are still needed. Are you ready to serve? We got open doors and open uh rolls. Head to the service opportunity section in Mighty Networks to see where your gifts can make a difference. Right now, we're especially looking for help with Elos Kids. Our children ministry is especially in need of volunteers to support administrative roles and small behindthecenes tasks that make a big impact. Not every role requires a large time commitment or extensive onboarding. your commitment or extensive onboarding um experience, your willingness alone goes a long way.

And the benevolence committee is also looking for volunteers. We're looking uh for compassionate, dependable volunteers to help review requests, coordinate, support, and serve our community with care. All right, Globe Groups. Uh we mentioned earlier that our digital small groups are growing and we need more host to help create welcoming space for connection and disciplehip. Whether you love welcoming people, organizing behind the scenes, crafting messages, or working uh with tech, we've got a spot for you.

Let's build together. Let's serve together. Remember to check out all the volunteer opportunities on service section of Mighty Networks and it's updated weekly. So that if you fit in any of those roles, please uh go and check that out. All right, want to remind you guys about AlamoC Global. As you guys know, if you've been here uh with us, you know that we are a global online church and we are going into all of the world. Uh right now, we're broadcast all around the world, but we want to speak the languages of the world.

And right now we're going in seven different languages, but we want to go into more. And so for those of you who are just joining us for the first time, we want to show you what LMC Global is all about. Let's keep LMLC Global in our prayers. Um, and I'm in a moment I'm just about to show you or tell you how you can continue to support LMLC global so that we can continue to go into all the world um and um in the future go into more languages of the world than just seven. And there's a question in the chat.

Someone's asking uh do you have to be a member to volunteer? No, you don't. If you are a viewing audience and you would like to help, uh you will um obviously go through a process to be able to help and volunteer, but we uh welcome your participation and wanting to uh start helping with Loc. So, to let you guys know how you can uh support Locosc Global, you can do that by going to adventistgiving.org. here is where you will be able to give your tithe and your offering to support all that we do here at LMLC um LLC church.

And so a virtual tithe envelope will fall down when you put in Living Mana uh Church. We are a church that's a part of the Northeastern Conference. So you can give your tithe and again that will go to the Northeastern Conference. And then when you want to support living mana church and to help us to do all the things that we do with living mana church you would give to the local church budget. So you can give your offering uh there you will also see a line where you can help with the benevolence fund where pe when people are in need of assistance and they are asking uh living mana church to help if we are able to help them it's going to come for from the benevolence fund.

So if you would like to give to uh that uh area and part of our ministry here at Living Mana, you can give to that and that will help us to be able to help others. If you um do not want to give virtually online, you can send in your tithe offering and offering to Living Manage Church. the address that you see there on the screen, PO Box 428, Owens Crossroads, Alabama 35763, and you will be able to mail in your tithe and offering. Please put in a little note uh with your with your tithe and offering to let us know what is for tithe, what is for offering or even another area uh that you see there on the tithe envelope that you want your funds to go and to support so we know where to allocate those funds um and so that we can put it in the right place where you're wanting to put uh and to give.

So those are the ways that you can give to support Living Mana Church. Just want to say thank you to all of you that have been with Living Mana Church. Um we've almost been here four years, guys. It's February 7th today and in April 9th, it is our fourth uh anniversary of Living Mana Church. And so we are so thankful for all of you who have been supporting Living Mana Church by your presence, by sharing with people, telling them all about it, inviting them to different programs, uh, to church service and programs that we do during the week, inviting them to mental health Monday, true health Tuesday, and the two prayer services that we have, uh, during the middle of the week as well.

And you guys do that. you invite people and tell them and we are just so very thankful for your prayers and for your financial gifts that help keep Living Mana Church up and running. So, thank you to all of you. And right now, we just want to praise God. We just want to thank him for his faithfulness and what he does for each and every one of us. So, if you would please join me uh as we just bow our heads in prayer. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you uh just for the Sabbath. Lord, I'm thank so thankful for the Sabbath to worship you, to give praise to you, Lord, and just to spend time together with our lovely church members that are literally all around the world.

It is a blessing that you have allowed us to be a church in this space where so many people are on YouTube, they're online, they're on Facebook, they're on social media, and you have allowed us to plant a church right where they are. And we praise you for that. We thank you, Lord. Lord, I just want to lift up everyone that is hearing my voice, th those who are live right now and those that will hear and watch later on. Lord, you know all the different things. You know their praises, Lord. You know their burdens.

You know the request. You know what's on their heart. Lord, there's marriages that are struggling. I ask that you help them. There are parents that are struggling and connecting with their children, their teenage children, their young adult children. Lord, even their grandchildren sometimes. So, I pray for them, Lord. Lord, there's people there's those here that are physically having physical illness, Lord, and they're needing healing. We pray healing upon all that are sick. And Lord, finances are an issue um in this economy, in this world that we're living in.

So many people are going through so many different things. Lord, I pray that you will bless them financially. those who are needing a financial blessing when they are just worried that the lights may be turned off or whatever the case may be. Lord, send send them the funds that they need so that doesn't happen. But Lord, give them peace as they are going through that and let them know that you are with them. You are always with them in every trial and every tribulation. Lord, I pray for Pastor Meyers for the message that you have put on his heart.

I pray that he will that he will deliver it in the way that you want him to deliver it so that it will bless our hearts and change our lives. Lord, I ask all these things in Jesus name. Amen. Let him use you. That phrase is a common refrain in the black church, often lifted in a shout towards the minister of the moment. Let him use you. And by God's grace, they did. Let him use you as he used Rosa Parks, whose peaceful resistance set in motion one of the largest social movements in history. And as he used Pastor Ralph Abernathy, who soon after organized the Montgomery bus boycott, helping to bring bus segregation to an end.

Let him use you as he used Dorothy Cotton and Septima Clark who empowered a generation of voters through the citizenship education program. And as he used Pastor Frederick Douglas Ree whose work in Alabama led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act. Let him use you. As he used Dorothy Height, whose leadership in the Civil Rights Movement for the first time gave a voice to the issues affecting AfricanAmerican women. as he used John Lewis who fought tirelessly to end segregation and courageously marched from Selma to Montgomery.

Let him use you as he used Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who dedicated his life to achieving equality and justice for every American. Let him use you. They did and history was made. And today, even now, you can almost hear them joining with that great cloud of witnesses, exhorting you and me right now to let him use you. I will lift up mine eyes to the heels. From whence cometh my help, my help cometh from the Lord. He said he will not suffer thy foot thy foot to be moved. not slumber sleep for Lord is thy keeper.

The Lord is thy shame. upon thy right hand. thy right hand. No, the sun shall not smite thee by day or the moon by night. even forever more. All of my help cometh from Lord. Here at Living Mana, we bear each other's burdens. When you need support or prayer, when you're feeling discouraged or alone or anxious, you don't have to face life struggles alone. Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in our time of need. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit.

Amen. Amen. Greetings saints of the most high God and our beautiful living man of family worldwide. Welcome to another edition of living manners prayer and praise time. I am brother Terry here with my lovely bride Amra. As always we are happy and excited to be able to serve you in this capacity. What a what a wonderful day it is to worship the Lord no matter what's going on. Can we say amen? >> And listen, you know, saints, we greet you and today you you heard me say uh uh welcome to our living man of family worldwide.

We're not just saying that. Listen, >> we have seen folk today. We're seeing you in the chat. Love all of you. Listen, we're going to do a different little roll call today because, you know, I've been doing this a while, but today it just seems like the term worldwide and living man of global just took on a whole new uh uh uh uh meaning today. I mean, the same meaning. We're always out there grow global and worldwide, but we want to be aware of this thing. I saw people from Australia, Ethiopia, Greece, I mean >> Caribbean, >> the Caribbean was here, South Dakota was here, China, France, interacted with these people.

There's not just we're not just calling off lovely sounding, you know, names of countries and states, but I saw the names of people and I tried to reach out to everybody. Um, South Dakota, like I said, southern Ohio, Jamaica, New York, and Texas are here. Long Beach in the house, Mexico, love y'all. Oklahoma, obviously Trinidad and Tobago, the Dutch Caribbean, we always got to remember you. Uh, brother Elco, we know I saw somebody from San Jose, Kenya, Zambia, Bise, definitely Barbados, the Bahamas, Palao is in the house.

And Louisiana, all right, Louisiana, we know y'all here. Love y'all. And beautiful Jamaica. Just everywhere. And and and so if you're watching from these beautiful places, we want to send our love out to you and thank God for this amazing family. Truly a global family. And it it makes us really think we got to start thinking global in everything we do and living global and and praying globally and serving globally, loving globally. We want to circle the globe. Amen. I see you. That's right. We are definitely global.

And so, you know, we got a message that God has sent to the world. And so, wherever you are, beloved, let's join our hearts. Let's join our our minds and our spirits. Spamco, I see you there, brother. I see you there over there in Europe. And so, God bless you. I forgot that prayer request. We prayed on Power Wednesday. We're going to be able to connect. But listen, I want to Felis Sabado Familia. Yes, Sister Annette. Love you. I did shout out Mexico. Good to see you there. And uh so listen, here's a scripture we're all familiar with.

I've been quoting it a bit. 1 Corinthians chapter 13:10 says, "There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man." >> But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that which you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that you might be able to bury. I mean, something really awesome about that occurred to me today. Um, you know, I can remember a time when I was in the middle of a big mess. Y'all heard me talk about a thousand times. I'm gonna keep talking about it.

That's my testimony. In the middle of the mess, I was watching Pastor Iva Meyer, right? And I remember praying about wanting to go to Bible school and wanting to graduate seminary. And I did, you know, graduate uh seminary, not an physics seminary, by the way, which we've told a thousand times and um fought and argued with my professors and everything. But but while I was there, I was watching Iva Meyer. I never really realized that I would get out one day and sit under this amazing ministry. And God showed me something that he's given us.

Really last night, it came to fruition like exploded in my mind. and I've already been aware of it, but it's like he took another layer of of uh uh uh just added another layer of blessing to it. We have a prophecy curriculum here at Living Man. Pastor Meer has back to basics, Matthew 24, the elephant in the room, right? We just went over the story of the 10 horns. I'm going to tell you something, saints. Listen to me. Binge watch all of that. God has given us an amazing prophetic curriculum for his people for this hour.

And the reason why I keep emphasizing that is because I mean, you ever wondered what was taught to the school of the prophets? What were they teaching them in there? You know, I don't know. But I know God has given us a word that's relevant for this hour. And these teaching, these distinctive prophetic teachings are what makes us who we are in this hour. We are the remnant. We are God's people. This is indeed our finest hour. But what a wonderful thing that God has given us a word that allows us to have answers to know what's going on.

And here, let me say this and I can shut up because I not I pastor going to preach in a minute. All right? But here's something for you. Listen, if you ever wonder why is there so many distractions? Why is there so much mess going on? one thing going on here at work or at home in our marriages, in our health, in our finances, always something. It's because it's it's it's all designed really to either deepen us in the Lord or to get us away from this incredible message God has given us to distract us from that study time and that prayer time and staying focused on this word.

Do not allow life's trials and struggles to snatch this amazing prophetic word from your heart and mind. Beloved brothers and sisters, this is indeed our finest hour. So I want to encourage you, stand and be strong in the Lord, and the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you might be able to stand against the ws of the devil. He gonna keep on coming. He gonna keep coming, but the victory is already secure in Jesus. Can we say amen? >> Amen to that. >> All right. All right. Love everybody.

Don't have time for a roll call today, but we do have something special for you. Now, my beloved bride is going to tell us what God has been doing in the lives of his people. Yes. Before that, I have some announcements as usual. If you have a prayer request or a praise report that you would like to submit um to the prayer team, please send an email to pray living people to join us. It is a very robust and active community. um you would never regret it. It is uh we have so many different things going on that we need people to help with.

So please also send an email to pray at living mana.urch if you have an interest in joining us in the prayer team. If you need a special ops uh team and you're requesting a special ops team for yourself or a loved one, please send an email to spec ops at livingmana.urch. If you need a midweek pickup, please join us every Wednesday at Power Wednesday. that is at 4:30 p.m. Pacific Standard Time, 6:30 Central, 7:30 Eastern Standard Time. And it is an amazing um weekly program where we switch off doing testimonies and devotionals.

We have um active prayer and fellowship. So, it is a perfect time to come um pray. Following that, we have our weekly power line. That is the live prayer that happens um we take in the chat. That's every Wednesday at 6:00 pm Pacific Standard Time, 900 PM Eastern. And that takes place on YouTube um on uh the LMC website or YouTube channel as well as Power of the Lamb. So come join us directly following power Wednesday for live prayer. If you would like to join the women's ministry on mighty networks, please send an email to women living.urch.

Um I think it's so important for women and men to join women and men's groups here and be an active part of the community. Um, if you are a man, please send an email to menlivingmana.urch to get involved in the men's group where you can just connect on all of the issues and um, special needs that men go through. Um, what a great way for men to connect in our church. >> All right, that is the weekly announcements. Um, one thing about the men's group, men's ministry, uh, First Lady and Dr. Ricardo White have been doing a series on men's mental health on mental health Monday and I'm sure you probably heard the announcement and some of you men may not have been able to be there.

Um, but there have been a lot of questions and they've been touching on a lot of very powerful topics and and if you if you haven't been able to show up or you feel like maybe there was a point or a topic that needed more time spent with the Lord laid it on my heart to take uh make a list of the questions that they've gone over, maybe go through back through and listen again and jot those down and I want to submit those to brother Elco leader of the men's ministry and him along with uh brother Kashif and brother um Kirk and and brother Ross and maybe they can put those together and figure out a way to incorporate them into their meetings so we can have more discussions and address those topics more because some of those topics I found to be very very very important and instrumental in my own u mental health.

So, uh, >> yes, and they are still in the midst of the men's >> series that they're doing on Mental Health Monday, and they're recorded. So, if you are interested in going back, it's also for women as well, so we know how to support our men in our world. All right, praise reports. First one coming from Lisa Clark. Praise God. God for receiving a grant for textbooks this semester. Practically all my material costs were covered. From Jamie A. The first one was from last week caught in the chat. Praise God for getting mom safely through a threehour oral surgery.

>> Amen. And from today, praise God, our neighbor who had open heart surgery Christmas Eve is celebrating his birthday today. He's home and healing. >> Praise God. >> Amen. From Olive Torres. Celebration is in order. A few days ago, I requested prayer for this couple, and you are the epitome of how prayer can make a difference. My dearly beloved, God truly is faithful. Here's the praise report from my friend Meline and her husband Boy. FYI, Boy passed his adjustment of status interview. He's now a permanent resident.

Praise the Lord. Thank you all for your intercessory prayers. They are extending their warmest thanks. From Pauline Goodine. Love you Pauline. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. I filed my case. Glory to God. God's timing is the best timing. Now, let his will be done. Glory. >> And we will be continuing to pray over that case, Pauline. But we are glad that it is the time is here. >> And finally, from Jesse Fostino, praise report. A brother from my local church was about to be evicted. I don't have all the details, but I know God helped him out through his servants.

His rent was paid and groceries were taken care of. >> And praise God for young brother Jesse Ostino. Jesse, you continue to be an inspiration to us all. We love you here and thank you for allowing us to share your life with you. Also, Sister Jod, I saw your message in the chat. I left you a message in Slack, sister, so uh we can make that appointment. And uh God bless everybody. Love y'all. You know, February uh is the month of love. I mean, God's people every every day is love for us, but February is, you know, it's the the month of romance.

Everybody's kind of sharing their Valentine's and all that different stuff. But >> I mean, our anniversary is this month, too. >> Our anniversary is this month on the 20th. Believe me, I did not forget that. And uh I have a birthday coming up by the grace of God. Um, I will be turning 60 here in a couple of weeks. >> Milestone birthday. >> So, thank you. >> On the 26th. >> Amen. Praise God for that. And any the rest of you are celebrating birthdays in February. We love you and we are celebrating your beautiful life.

Thank God for you uh and for allowing us to uh experience you while we are here together in Earth's history. Now, but here's something really special that's going to happen in the month of February. Uh, one of our special ops teams is going to be doing intercessory prayer throughout the whole month of February. In fact, it is Papa Ronnies, Pastor Myers's father. His special ops team, the Fab Seven, as they are called, are going to be coming on with us. And so, we're really excited about them. I've had a chance to pray with these sisters.

I mean, these sisters really are I mean, they're specifically assigned to Papa Ronnie, but when they start praying, they're praying for everybody. I believe I've been there. And so, I've had them in my ear at work and just listening to them and um uh wow. Let me tell you, who is this? Someone said Scarlet turned 62 days ago. >> No, no, no. >> Oh, Scarlet. >> Crystal. Chris said, "Scarlet turned six >> two days ago." Well, listen. Happy birthday, Scarlet. Wow. Young Scarlet is just growing up, ain't she?

>> And SP, my baby was born this month. >> Amen. Amen. I just happened to look down and see that. And hello, Sister. >> Happy early birthday anniversary. Okay. You know what? We didn't mean to start another roll call. That's not why while we're here. So, go ahead. I don't mind it though because I was watching pastor. Those are our pastors, right? And we we we follow the example. I love the way they intimately interact and and and it's not just like pastor said, it's not just a production. It is, but it's not.

We're family. It's church. We interact. We lean on we love one another. We fellowship. We support. It's real, you know. >> It's real. And I I I'm want to follow that example. I like that. I like that. It's beautiful. So yeah, we reaching out to family. You know, we're here and uh I'm glad you mentioned that, Crystal. And we miss you, too. Love you. All right. So, what were we talking about? Oh, we're talking about the Fab 7 getting ready to come on. So, today I think we're going to have Sister Barbara Simmons, Sister Birdie, who's telling me, and we're going to have Sister Christina, and they're going to come on and they're going to lead us to the throne of grace.

So, we're we're excited to have them. Again, they're Papa Special Ops team. They'll be here for the whole month. and uh get to be blessed by them. >> So, my sisters, bless you as you come. Believe they should be coming up here shortly. And we want to thank you all for praying for our our technical team and and behind the scenes. They do a wonderful job. >> Hi, Barbara. >> There she is. Sister Barbara. >> Can you hear me? >> Hi. God bless you. >> Yes ma'am. you can. >> Okay. I'm not sure about the other two.

maybe we'll just wait a minute and see if they come on. >> All right. So, maybe in the meantime, you can introduce yourself briefly as we wait for them. There they go. >> There's TMA. >> Praise the Lord. Oh, we can't hear you, TMA. >> TMA, we can see you, but we can't hear >> Okay, Sister Barbara, you may want to go ahead and start and uh she she'll jump in. >> Yes. Because I have a little bit of introduction here uh to tell you about the Fab 7. Um, like like brother Terry told you, we are Papa Ronnie special ops team.

And for those of you who are new to us today or just visiting, a special ops team is a prayer team that what pastor calls do sniper prayer. That means that we um we we hone right in on our target for praying. And this team meets three days a week to pray for Paparani, but we also pray for other people too. Um, but on the Fab 7, there are seven of us. And um, there is Birdie, there is Christina, there is Chalala, and there is Marcella and Joanne and Simone, and myself. And we're all in different locations.

Um the furthest away is Chalala. She's in Zambia and um I am in um on the island of Anguila and um Birdie is in Connecticut, Christina is in Colorado. Marisella is in Kansas. Joanne is in Trinidad. And Joanne is our coach. And um and like I said, we get together three times a week and uh pray for Paparani. Plus, we we pray for the Meyers family. We pray for um the Fab 7. We pay pray for the prayer list. We pray for um um various. We pray for Sister Stacy. we pray for um um I forget any more that we pray for but it it's a lot.

So um today we are going to do intercessory prayer and when I first came to um when I first came to the special ops team I didn't hardly even know what intercessory prayer was. I came from originally from a different religion and um and We never prayed. So I didn't know how. That's why I joined the prayer team so I could learn how to pray. >> So let me read to you this the um the scripture that Chris Sister Christina researched for us about intercessory prayer. So I am reading first Timothy 2 verse 1 and two and it says therefore I exhort first of all that supplication prayers intercessions and giving of thanks be made for all men for kings and all who are in authority that we may lead a quiet life, a quiet and peaceable ible life in all godliness and reverence.

So it tells us in scripture to pray for others. Okay, it looks like Christina is still having trouble or not Christina but but B. But um I am going to go down through the prayer list and hopefully by the time I am down through the prayer list um she will be able to do the actual prayer. And I just wanted to let everybody know that the prayers that are not mentioned today will be prayed over by the prayer team. We collect all of the prayers. They go to the prayer team and um and they are prayed over and prayed over and prayed over.

They're prayed over until you tell us that they have been um answered. So, just want to let you know that if you don't hear your prayer today, it will be prayed. So, first of all, we have an urgent request for special circumstances for encouragement and a reminder that this special person is a child of God and that he loves you and that God loves you. And Llaya Peterson is asking for prayer for their February 14th ministry when they'll be handing out crocheted hearts in a gift bag with a great controversy at their local church.

And blessing Joy is asking for a miracle for Doug to touch his heart and allow him to understand your love, God. Um, and she is asking, "Please save his soul by any means. Comfort him at this time." And Laya Peterson is is asking for prayer for her sister, Dawn. She says, "Thank you that she is out of the hospital, but is still plagued by medical issues. Pray for healing for Dawn." And Christy 5791 is asking for prayer for Lewis Torado, her neighbor who's having serious health problems and is temporarily blind as she's asking for his sight to be restored and his health to be improved.

And Adega Havammani 5551 is asking for continued prayer for his family in Iran who are under unimaginable continued danger and darkness. He says, "Please don't forget them." And we won't. We won't forget them. We'll continue to pray for them. And Christy 5791 asks is asking for prayer for her sons and for the rest of her family, brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, and all of her friends. And I am Rain is asking for prayer for her son Caleb's mom who is in the hospital with a life-threatening She says he she asks for prayer for family and for God's healing.

>> Um we are all asking you to pray for all our children. Give them spiritual guidance and put the Holy Spirit in them. And Josie Lenora 9035 is asking you to is asking for prayer to heal the rift between her and her brothers. Brother Terry, our our beloved brother Terry who is the head of our prayer team and leads us every day. He is asking for prayer. He's in New York City and he's asking for prayer for strength and endurance and patience as he is care in New York City pray caring for his bed bound sister.

He says it's not easy. So we ask you Lord for strength and endurance and patience for him. And we ask and we and Ponzi pansy keep we is asking for prayer to keep him and his family in prayer especially his son Moansa and friend Gray and Black Rob 9479 is asking for pray prayer for results of his nerve conduction study that it will be favorable and Landre 485 Five is asking for continued protection and guidance and and employment. And I think our sister Birdie is back on now. Thank you. Thank you, Lord.

And she will be praying over all of these prayers that we just read out to you. Can you guys hear me? >> No, we >> There you are. >> There you are. Yes, we can. >> I'm good. >> Are you good? >> Praise the Lord. Praise Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Happy Sabbath, my brothers and sisters. Manner, to God be the glory. Great things you have done. God is great and God is good and God is marvelous and we just want to give God thanks and praise for this another beautiful and blessed Sabbath day of rest.

Thankful for my dear sister Barbara. She already read all the prayer requests from the chats which I'm going to cover and whatever is not covered at this moment you can have sure that it's covered right during the course of the week. My brothers and sisters who always place their prayer requests and trust us to lift them up to the throne room of God's grace and mercy. So right during the course of the week, we cover you guys with your prayer requests and we give you thanks and praise. So let's pray.

Heavenly Father, thank you again today for this beautiful Sabbath day of rest. Thank you for your grace and thank you for your mercy, oh God. Thank you that you have spear our life to see this another beautiful, beautiful day. In fact, that we are here, it's a lot of blessing because so many have laid their head to rest last night. Did not wake up this morning. But you allow us another day, another moment right here on planet earth where we can just give you all the praise and all the glory and all the honor.

It does not belongs to us God. It belongs to you. Everything's belongs to you. Whatever we do here on planet earth is all about our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It's about to bring us home back into the beautiful garden, the beautiful home that he has gone to prepare for each and every one of us. And he wants to make sure that we as his sons and daughter, his children make it back home. And we have to do our part amidst everything that we are facing right here on planet earth. All the different trials.

We have to keep our eyes focus upon the goal. And our goal supposed to be going back home which is heaven. While we are living here on planet earth, we are going through a journey. We are traveling on a train journey and the final destination is heaven. And we do not need to miss out on this beautiful, beautiful, glorious moment in heaven. What a day that will be when we shall see our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ face to face. And today I want to lift up all these beautiful prayer wicked cresses that sister Barbara already called out.

And there are so many of them, oh father. Some are suffering from physical sickness. Father, those who are suffering from sickness physically hitting their body, their joints, whether it's cancer, diabetes, arthritis, whatever sickness they may be going through at this moment, they can have assurance that Jesus Christ, the great healer, the great physician is right there. He will never leave them and he will never forsake them. Under no situation and under no circumstances, he is always right there.

So as we lift up everyone who are suffering in the physical rims of their system of their body right now, I continue to plead the cleansing blood of Jesus, the great healer, to fill them, to wash them, to cleanse them, to purify them from the crown of their head to the sole of their feet and night them. I pray that the Holy Spirit will continue to tabernacle with them. And I pray that they will never give up hope. Whatever they are facing, they will never give up hope. There are some who may be struggling financially.

There are some who may be struggling and family part. Whatever they are struggling with, I lay you all at the foot of Jesus Christ. Wrapped up in the palm of his hands right now. Those big agape arms of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Wrap them tightly around your sons and your daughter of a father in the name of Jesus Christ. I curse and rebuke every dynamic forces that may try to attack them in the name of Jesus. remove, annihilate and uprooted from them so that they will keep their high focus and be strengthened as they continue to journey in through this planet earth that we are traveling on at this moment.

Those who are suffering and need more spiritual help. I pray that the cleansing blood of Jesus, the Holy Spirit will tabernacle with them. Wrap his arms around them. Breathe your Holy Spirit upon them from the crown of their head and to the sole of their feet so that whatever they faces, they will remember that they serve a true and living God, the God of our forefather, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Shedrach, Mitch of Abedo. And they cannot give up. They cannot let go. They must keep their high focus.

Our goal, our destination is heaven. and let us allow nothing to separate us from such a beautiful beautiful place where our God is preparing for us. There are some who are suffering from mental, emotional and a lot of personal issues that we don't know but God knows everything because nothing is hidden from God and I claim you all in the name of Jesus Christ. I claim your heart to God because God want us to be heart ready every step, every journey of this place where we are traveling on planet earth.

So whatever the issue you are going through at this moment have a faith in God. Trust in him because God said in his word even before we open up our mouth and utter anything before him that he already hear that he already answer. And when we pray when we as brothers and sister intercede and come to gather the faith the prayer of the faithful reach into the throne room of God's grace and mercy and the blessing come flowing down upon every individual. There are angel who are ascending and descending back and forth from heaven back and forth upon that leather picking up our prayer request is when we lay them down and he bring them back up into the throne room of God's grace and mercy.

God send out the blessing at this moment oh God pour out your blessing because if ever a people your sons and your daughter and planet earth need a blessing. It is no other time than this very special time. We are living in the final moment on planet earth. Yet we know not the time or the moment when you shall put in your appearance. But we know this is judgment time. This is end time we are living in. And we need to keep our high focus. We need to pray like we have never prayed before. We need to cover each other with the cleansing blood of Jesus.

We need to plead for the outpouring of the Holy Spirit to wash us, to cleanse us, to fill us like on the day of Pentecost. So nothing would be withhold from us. So we will not be afraid of nothing that may come in our way. Because we serve a mighty God who promises as David said in his word, I was young and now I'm whole. Never ever yet have I seen the righteous forsaken are their seed begging bread. And according to your word, oh God, your promises that you will supply our daily needs, according to your riches in glory, and your riches in glory is everything.

And it's from that resources that you pour out and supply the needs. Everyone that have a needs today, whatever it is, personal, spiritual, physical, emotionally, and all had a aspect of your life, lay them at the foot of Jesus Christ night and day. Continue to trust, continue never to give up, continue to push your requests to God because we cannot bear um weary out God under no situation. We cannot weary him. Burdens are lifting at Calvary and Jesus is very near and we need to continue lifting up our burden.

We need to continue crying out to God for our brothers and sister who are suffering who are struggling across the world in every situation that they faces at this moment and living mana platform church here it is a online church that goes across the globe all over the world. So there are brothers and sisters in the four quarters of the world who are a part of living mana church and they faces different struggle in their own part of vineyard that they are living in and we continue to lay them in God hands and continue to ask God to breathe your holy spirit upon them that they will never ever let go of your hands because you God will never let go of any of us as your sons and your daughter.

We continue to lift up sister Eden aba father. You know exactly who sister Eden is at this very present moment and time and I want to lay your daughter in the hollow palm of your hands. You know where she is right now. I pray oh God that your cleansing blood will wrapped around her. I pray that you will dispatch holy angels from heaven and encircle around your dear daughter sister Eden by name and by number. Because you know what? Not a strong of her here is missing. You know her. your farmer in the womb of her mother.

You created her. You have a plan and a purpose for her. The devil is trying to attack her. But in the mighty name of Jesus, and this your holy Sabbath day of rest, I annihilate and curse every dynamic forces away from your dear daughter, sister Eden, right now. Wrap her up right now in the hollow palm of your hands. Bring her comfort. Bring the parents comfort at this moment, ab father, and the rest remaining family along with us as the living mana platform family who continue to lay her in the hollow palm of your hands.

And we will not stop crying and praying out for Eden and call her name into the hands of God because we know that the devil cannot win under no situation and circumstances. So I pray God right now bring comfort to heathen. Whatever her struggle, whatever her trials, whatever her situation, we lay it all in the palm of your hands. We all come in oneness in agreement as we cover sister Eden this day and constantly and continually. We continue to thank you for the all the tech teams and the equipments father that you uses to take care of this beautiful living mana platform across the globe.

Father, what a beautiful thing it is where your sons and your daughters from different part of the vineyard can come together and yet be such as such a beautiful thing as the tech team because they serve behind the scene. Oh God, so touch them from the crown of their head to the sole of their feet. Not only this moment but for the rest remaining of their life. Touch their family. They're going out and they're coming in wherever they may be. I pray in the mighty name of Jesus. be with all the equipments that serve in this beautiful online churches not only for today but for every day because this church is a 24hour around the clock.

There is always something going on and we give you thanks and praises for your goodness and for your mercy. The hearway is a wide open space and God provide this beautiful airway and using it to draw his sons and daughter into the kingdom of heaven. While we are still living here in the kingdom of grace that he came to set up, he want us to make sure that our life is right with him. So that when he shall come in the clouds of glory to bring home his chosen rooster of saints, all of us who have make our calling and election sure, we'll be going home, riding back home.

If we are resting, we'll be in the first resurrection. And if we're awake, we will all caught up together to meet our Lord and Savior in the sky. We pray above father for our dear pastor pastor Hiver Meyers at this very special moment in time. You have a special word for your sons, for your daughters across the globe at this moment. Oh God, all his words are from you. You have called him. You have appointed him. You have anointed him. And you are using him in such a way in such a time as this father.

You are using him to spread your good word, the gospel of aa father across the world to bring your sons and daughter back into your fold of aa father whom the devil is trying to rip away. But God you will not allow that to happen. So I pray oh God that the words today from pastor Hiver Myers touch him from the crown of his head to the sole of his feet. Touch his mic. Touch his gadget. Touch his studio room father that he's using at this moment. anoint it. Hedge him around father in every direction from A to Z.

Oh aba father wherever he may be not only at this moment but for the rest remaining of his life whether by here here or flying over father I pray that you will continue to cover pastor Hiver Meyers in every direction and his family father his beautiful wife and all of the other remaining of the meers family at this moment. So we thank you for the living manner that we are about to participate in. the living manner that is here to fill us for the rest remaining of this day and for the rest remaining of this week father something for us to look to to reflect upon father touch him with every touch of yours aba father and continue to be with pastor hivyers be with the sermon aba father and we thank you for this beautiful living word aba father that we will all participate in at this very present moment and time you are a powerful god who promised never to leave us and never to forsake take us and we are so grateful for your goodness, for your mercy that flows around our life, Aba Father.

And when all is said and done, I pray that all of us will make it home into that beautiful and glorious kingdom that we will never never depart from you again. What a beautiful moment that will be when there will be no more sickness, no more headaches, no more pains and trials that our sons and daughter, our brothers and sisters are facing right now, aba father. But as we continue to live in this world, aba father, help us to keep our eyes focused upon the beautiful gold heaven that you are going to prepare and you will come back to bring us home and we cannot wait, oh God.

Yes, we are living in the end time and we have we need no glass to see that we're living in the end time. This is the end time that we're living in. Help us to keep focus upon you as we continue to serve you in spirit and in truth in the beauty of your holiness. Thank you for today's service and thank you for the rest remaining of this beautiful, beautiful time that we are here together. Let us put on our spiritual muscles of faith. Keep our lungs filled with divine oxygen of grace by mindfully breathing in prayer so that God will keep our lungs filled with his mercy and fuel our soul with agape love.

Let us keep our eyes focused upon the eastern sky that will soon burst open and Jesus we will soon see soon and very soon we will be home. Until then let us continue to trust in our Lord and Savior and let us continue to dine in his word night and day as Pastor Meyers come. Thank you God. Bless him constantly. bless his studio once more and bless everyone who are participating in this beautiful beautiful moment and this beautiful breath of life in Jesus holy worthy and precious name. Whatever I have faded a fox of you this moment and behalf of every individual fade it not to grant it unto them but I pray God that you will bind us up all with that cord of love and that they love that we will never depart from you these and other wonderful mercies in Jesus holy worthy and precious name I pray.

Amen. And amen. When peace like a river attendeth my way. When sorrows like billows. Whatever my Lord, thou has taught me to say, it is well with It is well. is well with my soul. It is well. It is well with my soul. My sin. Oh, the bliss of this glorious thought. My sin, not in part, but the whole praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, oh my soul. Oh my soul for me is Christ be Christ has to live in Jordan above me. Oh trump of the angel of voice of the Lord. Blessed hope, blessed rest, oh my soul. It is well The Lord is the day when my face shall be sil The trump shall resound and the Lord shall descend.

Praise the Lord. It is well with my soul. >> It is well. >> It is well with my soul. with my soul. Amen. Church family. Amen. Happy Sabbath. Um I want to welcome each of you to the Living Matter online. Um 7th Day Adventist Church. And today's service you guys is um today's message uh is going to be one that is uh straightforward. to the point. you go ahead and put a one in the chat and let me know that you're ready for the word of God. Put that one in the chat. Uh today, beloved, we are going to be addressing the subject, the theme that I've entitled the transchristian movement.

The transchristian movement. I want you to pray with me. Let's do that now. Heavenly Father, please Lord speak to your people. Lord, speak and may your voice be heard and may be heard clearly is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Um, what if I told you that the Bible prophesied a movement that would have especially in the last days, a movement of trans Christians Now, you may not understand what I mean when I say transchristian. You may have never heard that term before. Um, but I would explain it as we get into this message.

But in fact, Paul along with others in the Bible did prophesy of a movement of trans Christians at the end of time. I want to read to you 2 Timothy chapter 3 beginning with verse one. As I lay the foundation for what trans Christianity is, the Bible says this, know also that in the last days perilous time shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truce breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure, more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof.

From such, turn away. Beloved, when I speak of the term transchristian, I'm speaking of a group of people who profess and on the outside have a form of godliness but deny the power thereof. If I can finish reading this verse, 2 Timothy chapter 3:5. In fact, um, let me just go ahead and read the definition. The definition of what a trans Christian is. A trans Christian is one who selfidentifies as a Christian despite not having been born one. You all put a five in the chat just to help me know that you understand what I mean when I say a trans Christian.

I'll read the definition again. A trans Christian is one who self-identifies as a Christian despite not having been born one. and we're going to unpack the problem with trans Christianity. I said earlier that the Bible prophesied at the end of time that there would be such a movement. And I want to take you to the book of Daniel uh Daniel chapter 2 specifically which also speaks of this movement. In Daniel chapter 2, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon has a dream in which God is going to show him the future.

And in this dream, God shows him an image of a man with head of gold, uh, a chest, chest and arms of silver, belly and thighs of brass, legs of iron, and then toes of iron and clay. I see the questions coming. Hold those questions because I'm going to answer them. uh Nebuchadnezzar does not know the meaning of the dream and uh he he is requesting someone to come forward and to tell him the meaning of the dream. Eventually Daniel the prophet is brought to him and Daniel is going to break down this dream for him.

And I want you to notice with me in Daniel chapter 2 beginning with verse 37 where Daniel tells the king, "Thou o king are the king of kings. For the God of heaven has given thee a kingdom power and strength and glory. And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beast of the field, and the fowl of the heavens has he given into thine hand, and has made thee ruler over them all, thou art this head of gold." Daniel tells Nebuchadnezzar that king Babylon, the king of Babylon, and thus Babylon itself is the head of gold.

Then he says, "After thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee, and another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth. And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron. For as much as iron breakth in pieces, and subdueth all these things, and as iron breakth all these things, shall it break and bruise in pieces. Daniel is now breaking down the vision. And in essence, what we come to understand is not only did the head of gold represent Babylon, but the chest and the chest and arms of silver pointed to Meo Persia, the belly and thighs of brass pointed to the Grecian Empire, and the legs of iron pointed to the Roman Empire.

And then I want you to notice what Daniel 2:43 says. It says, "Whereas thou sawest the iron mixed with miry clay, they shall mingle themselves with the seed of men, but they shall not cleave one to another, even as iron is not mixed with clay." So in this vision after Nebuchadnezzar had seen the head of gold and the chest and arms of silver and the belly and thighs of brass and the legs of iron the last thing he sees are these toes 10 toes of iron and clay. The iron and clay are mingled together.

And the and Daniel gives the understanding that he simply says they shall mingle themselves with the seed of men. Now I want to break this down to show you how we get to trans Christianity. You see the iron in the toes of iron and clay would symbolize a continuation of the of the Roman Empire, the political system of the Roman Empire. But the clay, this new element that is introduced is significant. And here is why. In Isaiah 64:8, the Bible says, "But now, O Lord, you are our father. We are the clay and you are our potter.

We are the work. We are all the work of your hand. In the Bible, clay is symbolic of God's professed people. But we have a problem here in Daniel chapter 2. Because what the prophecy is showing is that God's professed people are mingling with the politics of Rome. And this is significant. Here is why. Because at the end of this vision, Nebuchadnezzar sees a stone cut out without hands that hits the image. Not in the head, not in the chest and arms of silver, not in the belly and thighs of brass, not in the legs of iron, but in the toes of iron and clay.

Why? Because because in the toes of iron and clay, you have a professed Christian people who have combined or merged themselves with the politics of this world with the things of this world. Thus, they are what we would call this this iron and clay system is in essence what we might call transch Christianity. It looks like Christianity, but it isn't. By the way, if we were to go back to the book of Genesis chapter 6, it is the first time we see something that is similar to what we read in Daniel chapter 2.

the toes of iron and clay mingling. The Bible says they will mingle themselves with the seed of men. When you go back to Genesis chapter 6, the Bible describes in the days of Noah that the sons of God saw the daughters of men and went in unto them and chose wives. So what the Bible is telling us here, a lot of people think this is talking about angels uh um uh uh having uh intercourse with with with men, with human beings, but this is not what the Bible is saying at all. What the Bible is is talking about here in Genesis chapter 6 is simply that the sons of God represented the lineage of Abel, the lineage of of of of Seth, I'm sorry.

And and think of it in this way when Jesus says in in in in the book of uh John as many as received him to them gave you power to become the sons of God. Sons of God represent those that are supposed to be converted while the daughters of men would have represented the lineage of Cain. And what's happening in Genesis chapter 6 is that the line that is supposed to be keeping themselves holy have mingled themselves with the seed of men. mingled themselves with an ungodly lineage. And so what we find in Daniel chapter 2 is a echo of the same thing.

It is Christians, professed Christians, listen to me, professed Christians with the things of this world, with the kingdoms of this world. Now, I need you to understand that this is Satan's MMO. This is how Satan operates. You'll remember in the garden in the in the wilderness when Jesus is being tempted in the wilderness in Matthew 4:8, the Bible says again, "The devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world." All the kingdoms of the world. All the kingdoms of the world.

Remember Daniel chapter 2, the toes of iron and clay, the toes of iron specifically represent the kingdoms of the world, while the clay represents the church, represents God's people. And in Daniel 2, you have this mingling of church and state. You have this mingling of church and the world. And so when we see here in Matthew chapter 4 that Satan takes Jesus to an exceeding high mountain and shows him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them and says and says all these things will I give you if you will fall down and worship me.

Please understand that the only way that the clay gets intermingled with the iron is through worshiping the enemy. Y'all put a one in the chat if you understand what I just said. The only way that God's people begin to mingle and blend with the world with the kingdom with the with the kingdoms of this world is they first must bow to Satan's will in order to do this. look a certain way. Genuine Christians are a certain way. Genuine Christians will not mingle with the world. Genuine Christians will not be of the world.

They will be in the world but not of the world. And so today, beloved, what I want to do is I want to share with you six problems with the with the transchristian community. Can I do that? Six problems with the transchristian community. Here is problem number one. You don't get to redefine what a Christian is. TransChristians for for a some strange reason cannot define what a Christian actually is. If you go right now and ask a trans Christian, what's a Christian? You might get a a thousand different responses.

But beloved, listen to me. The actual definition of a Christian is very simple. It is one who follows Jesus. Let me say it again. It is one who follows and lives like Jesus. Listen, listen, listen. You cannot be a trans Christian and define Christian other than what it is. Let me break it down for you a little bit further. You see, according to Philippians 2:5, the Bible says, "Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus." A true Christian is going to have or is going to exercise the mind of Christ.

A true Christian will not think like the world. A true Christian will not react like the world. A true Christian will not endure or will not grab hold of the things of the world mentally. A true Christian thinks like Jesus and not like the world. So listen carefully to me then. If the mind of Christ is to love your neighbor and you claim to be a Christian but do not love your neighbor, you are a trans Christian. You are part of the trans Christian community. understand what I'm saying. You may call yourself Christian.

You may demand that others call you Christian. But in reality, if you are not loving your neighbor, if you are not exercising the mind of Christ, which is demonstrated in love, you can call yourself a Christian all day long and demand that others call you Christian. But I I have to be honest with you. You are not a Christian. I I I know that it is blunt and I know that this message may be hard to hear, but let me say it again. A Christian is one who walks like Jesus. Let me show you something. In Revelation 2:9, the Bible says here, "I know thy works and tribulation and poverty, but thou art rich.

And I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews and are not, but are of the synagogue of Satan." Listen. So, in Revelation, there's a group of people who who John says they say they are this, but they're not. They're demanding people say, "Hey, I'm this." But they're not. Let me read it again. Revelation chapter 3:9, "Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie. Behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I've loved thee."

What is John talking about here? What is John talking about here? Let me break it down for you. In the book of Romans chapter 2 28, the New Testament says this, "For he is not a Jew which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew which is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit and not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God." So according to the New Testament, a Jew, a spiritual Jew would be one who believes in Jesus and follows Jesus.

But John here is saying, "Listen, I know that there are some out there who are calling themselves followers of God, Christians, and yet are not." So they are actually of the synagogue of Satan. Beloved, this is a sobering thought. It's a sobering thought. You see, Romans 12:2 tells us this. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. True transformation happens when your mind is renewed.

Therefore, beloved, if if you are if you claim to be a but you lack empathy, compassion, mercy, grace, if you lack the mind of Christ, if you're fierce, that you may demand all day long to be called a Christian, but the truth is that is not the truth. Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Which leads to the second problem with the anti- with the I'm sorry with the with the transchristian community. The second problem is this. You are what you were assigned at birth. I'm sorry. It's just the truth.

You are what you were assigned at birth. Let me help you to understand because you're like, "Pastor, what what are you saying? How does this relate to trans Christianity?" Well, let me show you. According to John 3:3, the Bible says, "Jesus answered and said unto him, verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." Listen, in order to be a Christian, you must be And if you have not been born again, you can claim all day long, I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian.

I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian because I think I'm a Christian. You can claim it all day long. But I hate to tell you this. I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but I've got to be honest. You are not a Christian. If you have not been born again, you cannot claim to be something which you were not at your birth. Listen to what John 1:12 says. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.

Let me say it again. To be a Christian, you must be assigned it at birth. Let me break it down a little bit further for you. Because you see, John 3:6 tells us, "That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit." You cannot be born of the flesh and yet claim to be a Christian, which is one that is born of the spirit. So then, what I'm saying to you, beloved, is very simple. If you're born of the flesh, you can't say, "I'm a Christian." All of us are born of the flesh.

But then there are some who are born again of the spirit. And if you are born again of the spirit, then that makes you a Christian at birth. You you there's no changing that you you have been so from birth. That is spiritual birth. However, however, if you haven't been born again, one of the evidences of which you don't have the mind of Christ, you don't have compassion, you don't have empathy, you put kingdom of this world over the kingdom of God, whether it is good kingdom of this world or bad kingdom of this world, you put kingdom of this world over the kingdom of God.

that your birth your birth That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. And so respectfully, not in a mean way, guys. Not in a mean way. I'm not trying to be rude. I'm not trying to be abrasive. I'm simply saying that if you have not been born the thing, you cannot be the thing. If you have not been born again, you cannot claim Christianity. And you can get mad at me. You can say, "I don't understand." You know, you can you can do all the things and I get it.

I get it. I understand. I I'm trying to be compassionate about it. But but beloved, truth is true. And we can't alter the truth to fit your concept of reality. Are you understanding what I'm saying? I mean, you can walk around and say to yourself, "I'm a Christian all day long. Christian. But but the evidence that that you that you that you the evidence that you have no capacity, the evidence that you hate others, the evidence uh the the the fact that that the fact that you live after the flesh versus after the spirit tells the reality what is happening in today's Christian community in America.

is a massive movement of trans who can who have this powerful way of mingling light with darkness without blinking an eye, without batting an eye. this powerful way of of excusing and explaining away evil while also claiming to be 100% Christian. And and it is a stunning thing to watch what would be otherwise sensible people walking around saying I'm a Christian when it is clear as day. I mean, spiritual science doesn't lie. Are y'all following me? Are y'all catching what I'm saying? You cannot bend the laws of spiritual science and say, "I'm a Christian now just cuz I want to say it.

Just because I have a position, just because I have a position that that is wrong and that is right, that makes me a Christian. Beloved, righteousness is not by position. Righteousness comes by the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ having a real life impact in your life. Christian biology cannot be ignored. transchristian community will just get mad. How dare you say that I'm not what I say I am. How dare you say that that that that I'm Come on. I I got to show you the next point here. Point number three.

Point number three. The way you can tell an actual Christian is that actual Christians can reproduce. Actual Christians can reproduce. Beloved, you may identify, you may identify as Christian. I get it. I understand. But what is happening today in the Christian world in America is that thousands and thousands, millions of people are are trans Christians and don't even know it. Beloved, I'm not saying that that Christians don't make mistakes and Christians don't have to repent of certain things, but actual genuine Christians actually repent of the stuff that they do wrong when they do it wrong.

They recognize, "Yeah, that was wrong. Man, I was weak in the flesh and blah blah." They recognize, "Oh man, that was the that was the enemy." They they understand. They recognize. But it's a totally different thing to look evil in the eye and say, "Yeah, that's good. to watch evil unfolding and say, "Well, I'm only concerned about certain types of evil, but not other types of evil." And this is what American Christianity is doing today. It is it it is a system that is based on trans Christianity.

So, pastor, what do you mean by an actual Christian reproduces? Let me show you. According to John 15:8, the Bible says this, "Herein is my father glorified that you bear much fruit, so shall you be my disciples." Again, in verse 5, just three verses up, I am the vine, you are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. So beloved, if you can't reproduce, don't call yourself a Christians, listen to me, Christians spiritually, biologically reproduce.

I mean, it it is crazy that we're living in a day and age where you have to tell someone that if you're not able to produce, how can you call yourself a Christian? It almost feels like we're living in an upside down world. Look at what the Bible says. Look at what the Bible says. Colossians 1:10, that you may walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. And then there's Galatians 5:22 and 23. But the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance.

Against such there is no law. Beloved, listen to me. If you are unable to produce, you cannot call yourself a Christian because a Christian is one who is able to reproduce. Come, let me show you Genesis 1 11. God said, "Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit yielding a fruit yielding and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself upon the earth." And it was so I need you to understand beloved that that the evidence that you are a Christian is that you can produce and the thing that you produce the seed of it is in itself the seed of it is in itself.

So, so as you're producing love, in that love is more love seed, joy, more joy seed. And listen, if you say, "I'm a Christian," but you exhibit the attributes that are against the Holy Spirit, that are against the fruit of the spirit. If you can actually rejoice over the the fall of your enemies, if you can actually in the name of Jesus and in the name of America rejoice over what you see as the fall or defeat of your enemies in the name of Jesus, relishing in pride pride and narcissism, excusing away in the name of honor not for God but for some principle you hold.

Please understand and please don't be offended when the label transchristian applies to you because genuine Christians produce the fruit of the spirit. They are fertile. And if you can't produce fruit, if you're not producing fruit, I like the way it's put in the book Reflecting Christ, page 341. It says here, "The harvest is a reproduction of the seed sown. Every seed yields fruit after its kind. So it is with the traits of character we cherish. Selfishness, self-love, self-esteem, self-indulgence reproduce themselves, and the end is wretchedness and ruin.

Love, sympathy, and kindness yield fruitage of blessing and a harvest that is imperishable. You want imperishable fruit, beloved. If you are not producing the fruit of the spirit, you cannot go around demanding that people call you a Christian. Listen to this. In Matthew 7, Jesus's own words. He says, "Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing. Outward, outwardly I'm a Christian, guys, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. You shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs with thistles?

Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, and a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is heuned down and cast into the fire. Wherefore by their fruits you shall know them. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven. Do you do you understand this? Just because you selfidentify as a Christian does not change the fact that you are not bearing fruit.

When you excuse wicked fruit, when you justify wicked fruit, when you cheer on wicked fruit, when you see nothing wrong with wicked fruit, certain wicked fruit, okay. Yeah, because that wicked fruit. Yeah, I I can I I can. But if you can't even identify a wicked tree, that is another sign. You see, beloved, what is the will of the father? Deuteronomy 5:29 says, "Oh, that they had such a heart in them that they would fear me always and keep all my commandments that it might be well with them and their children forever."

And you'll remember that Paul himself says, Paul himself says, I don't have I'm sorry, it's not in my notes, but Romans 13:10, love workketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. Listen to me. Let me say it again. If you are a Christian that loves country over person, you may call yourself a Christian, but you're actually part of the trans You are. I'm not trying to get you to be mad at All I'm saying is that we need to be honest with reality, with the truth. Let me go to point four.

Point four. Your feelings don't change biblical reality. Your feelings don't change biblical reality. You may feel all day long that you're a Christian, but the Bible tells us in Jeremiah 17:9, Jeremiah 17:9, that the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. So beloved, what you feel, what you feel doesn't really amount to a whole lot. Please understand what I'm saying when I when I when I'm trying to point out what I'm trying to point out to you, beloved, is that trans Christianity says, "Hey, as long as I feel like I'm following Jesus and and as long as I call myself a a Christian, um, and as long as I have certain positions uh that that the Christian is supposed to have, especially political ones, then that makes me a Christian."

But no, what that makes you is a trans Christian. What that makes you is part of the transchristian community. And God, it's not that God hates trans-Christians. I'm not saying that. But God wants you to change your ways. That's what he wants. He wants you to change your ways. And this is not coming from hate. It's coming from love. Now, I know that, you know, you may say, "I want to be accepted." And I get that God wants to accept you. But he's got to accept you on biblical grounds. He can't accept.

He says, "Come to me the way you are, but I'm going to change you so you don't remain the same. So, you can't hold on to your trans Christianity and say, but but but you know, if I let this go, then I won't have an identity." No. God says, "Let this go and I will give you a new identity. I will m I will make you into a new person. I will grant you a new birth." Again, Jesus said in Matthew 7:21, "Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven."

Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. Then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you trans Christian. Do you know how many people are walking around right now just all in their feelings? Yep. I'm a Christian. I'm a Christian. But h yes, I love when this happens. I put my I put country over God. the the state of Christianity in America today it's almost like you think people are losing their minds because how can you walk around saying I am a Christian and yet love the things that are the furthest away from Jesus.

and cheer on the things that are the furthest away from Jesus. How can you do? How is it possible? See, beloved, we can't depend on feelings. Here's what we need to depend on. Hebrews chapter 8:10 says this, "For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, sayeth the Lord. I will put my laws into their minds and write them in their hearts and I will be to them a god and they shall be to me a people. You can't trust your heart, your feelings. You need to have the law of God written on the heart.

And if the law of God is fulfilled in love, then beloved, it is impossible to hate any group of people. It is impossible. Listen to me y'all. It is impossible to hate people or groups of people or think yourself better than groups of people while having the law of God written on your heart. It just can't happen. It's spirit. It's spiriologically Yeah, I just made the word up, but it but I I'm making it a real word. It's spiriologically You can't do that. How do you say I'm a I'm a Christian and yet hate groups of people?

How do you say I'm a Christian and yet excuse evil? Justify evil. Rejoice in evil. Rejoice in cruelty. Rejoice in pride. Rejoice in in in in narcissism. How do you do the how how is that even possible? And beloved, we're watching this form of Christianity so that it reaches to such a high level in America that it is at the highest levels of our government. When you can sit in a in a and watch a national prayer breakfast in which is like a which is like a twilight zone Let me get to point number five, y'all.

We're almost there. Point number five is this. Cosmetic changes don't change who you really are. That's another problem with trans Christianity. Cosmetic changes don't change who you really are. So you can you can try to go and get all kinds of things done to change how you look on the outside, but it doesn't change who It's it's it's really what 2 Timothy 3:5 is talking about having a form of godliness. A form of godliness meaning shape. I'm trying to change how I look on the outside. I'm trying to change my shape.

Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. And the text literally says, "From such, turn away." Wow. From such, turn away. You may have the shape of Christianity, but you lack the power of it. And so what ends up happening is that we we try to go through all these these changes like you know some kind of some kind of spiritual surgery that says okay I'mma take if I take these things it's going to make me look more Christian. But beloved you cannot you cannot be a Christian from the outside to the end.

The only way it can happen is to be born again. You cannot by your own power, by your own rules, by your own by your own uh uh plans, by your saying, okay, if I do this, this this this and this, and if I believe this, this, this, and this, then I look like a Christian. Ah, see I used to look this way but now listen you may look I got to admit a a lot of the devil's spiritual surgery is is stunning to behold. Like you're looking at a wolf but you think he's a sheep. Like that's pretty good, y'all.

That's pretty scary when you can't tell the difference. And I think that's why Jesus put that parable of the um the wheat and the tears. Y'all remember the parable, the weed of the tears? We're like, "Yo, should we go when the the you know the servants say to the owner of the field, should we go and and and and and pull out the tears?" And it's like, don't do that because you might end up uprooting some of the wheat as you're doing this. Yeah. Listen to me, you guys. I I I admit I admit that it's scary nowadays to like you like you might think you're you might think you're hanging out with a Christian and next thing you know looking like a Christian on the outside does not change who you and what you really are on the inside.

Having a form of godliness but denying the power thereof. Listen, you know, God's word, y'all, God's word is such a joy. It is because you get to tell people the truth and you get to do it in a way that hopefully brings conviction and it is a beautiful thing. It is a beautiful thing to watch people go I get it. I get it. I see it now. I understand. So, so like Verette just said, if the devil has the ability to change himself into an angel of light, then no wonder that he can also transform his workers into the same.

And this is why we got to be so careful, beloved, about about understanding that there's a difference between true Christianity True Christianity is real stuff. TransChristianity is fake. And and for the most part, you guys, it's it's the it's the it's the rarity that you couldn't tell. But for the most part, you could be like, "Yeah, I I heard you, but no, I'm looking at you. You're no." And it's not a matter of judging, beloved. It's not like you're saying you're not a No, no, no. It's not a matter of judging.

The Bible does say that by their fruits you shall know them. So if there is someone who is not producing fruit or producing the wrong kind of fruit, it's not judgment. It's simply saying, "Oh, okay. I know what you are." But now, if you turn around and say, "No, I'm not that. I'm not that tree. I am this tree." Hey, how can a tree like this bear fruit like that? How can this good tree have as one of its fruit lack of empathy? How can it have narcissism? How can it have uh uh um uh uh the spirit of revenge?

How can it have fierceness? How can how can the tree you're saying you are produce these fruits? That doesn't make spirit biological sense. Titus 1:16, they profess that they know God, but in their works deny him, being abominable and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate. Beloved, this is this is serious stuff. This is serious serious business, right? Business right here. God is trying to open the eyes of the transchristian community before it is too late. Jesus described this very community when he said in Matthew 15:8, "This people draw nigh unto me with their mouth, lip service, lip service.

And honorth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me." The only way, beloved, that we can experience change is not cosmetically. The Bible says, "Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new." That's what we're after, beloved. That is what we're after. And let me let me let me come to this sixth point. Synthetic therapy won't change you. Synthetic therapy will not change you. No amount of external supplements, no amount of what you try to do to maintain the appearance that you are changed.

No, none of that will work. And beloved, for a lot of us, the things that we use to make ourselves look Christian is our political position, culture, force. We grab on to these things to say, see, I'm Christian. See, I'm holy. What do you mean you're holy? I'm holy. I have this position about this cultural uh uh uh you know issue and I have this position about this cultural issue and I believe that this is the way that things should be done in this country politically speaking and therefore I am and we think that these that these positions that we hold is what makes us look Christian beloved.

But may I suggest to you, may I suggest you that the Bible says in Jeremiah 17:5, "Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh flesh his arm, whose heart departeth from the Lord." When you trust in man, when you believe that men and sometimes ungodly men is the way for you to put your tr I'm putting my trust in the because it says Beloved, listen to me. Cultural Christianity is trans It is I like that Clint. It is cult And what we need to understand is very simple. It is not the synthetic stuff.

It is not the synthetic stuff, y'all, that makes us into new creatures. Listen to what the Bible says in Zechariah 4:6. The Bible says, "He answered me and said, this is the word of the Lord unto Zerubbabel, saying, not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, sayeth the Lord of hosts." Do you know that? Do you know that um the trans-Christian community probably hates this verse? They claim the verse, but what they really mean is by might and by power. Oh, yeah. Also by your spirit. It can't work like that.

The trans-Christian community when we go back to Daniel chapter 2 is a community of people that have idolized country here in America have idolized country over God. And beloved, it is at a level right now that is absolutely stunning to behold. We're almost done. We're almost there. This is my final point. Real love doesn't lie to people about their spiritual condition. Yep. Real love does not lie to people about their spiritual condition. If you have a friend or a loved one who you know says, "Uh, yeah, I'm a Christian."

And yet you understand, you see clearly the fruit is not there. I'm not I'm not saying to judge that person, but what I'm saying is don't don't bow to the false image. Pray for that person. You don't have to be rude. You don't have to be mean. You don't have to tell the people you're you're not a you're you're not a But you pray for that person and you do your best to help that person see that to be a Christian literally means to be like Jesus. And if Jesus were here today, I will tell you, do you know how many Christians would hate Jesus?

If Jesus were were in some, you know, strange way to be present on earth right now, the real Jesus, do you know how many Christians would be like, "No, thank you. This is not the picture of Jesus that we want. And I you're not down with the stuff we're down with. And so nah, we got our Jesus. We have our Cyrus. We have our Caesar. The Christian world today would hate Jesus for what he stood for what he would stand for. They would rather a barabus than Jesus. And so real love doesn't lie. This is why God says in Revelation 13 3:19, "As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten.

Be zealous, therefore, and repent." Yeah. Yeah. Acts 18 tells us, "But you shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you." That's what God wants for us. He wants us to be able to get that power, that dunamis, that dynamis. He wants us to be able to understand that when we're born again, the things that we thought we would never be able to do, the things that that that we're like, I God says, I'mma give you power to love. That's what the power is for. Power to love. Power to walk like Jesus, to be like Jesus.

So again, Proverbs 27:5 and 6 tells us, "Open rebuke is better than secret love. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. I think about Daniel chapter 2, where after Nebuchadnezzar had been told about this dream, head of gold, chest and arms of silver, belly and thighs of brass, legs of iron, toes of iron and clay, that in the very next chapter, in the very next chapter, Nebuchadnezzar goes and makes an image of all gold. He sees himself as who he wants to see himself as.

All gold. I'm good. This is the reality of my kingdom. Not what you told me over there in Daniel 2. This is the reality of my kingdom. And then he wanted them to bow down to his reality. Hey, my truth is different from your truth. And he wanted the people to bow down. And everybody did bow down except the three faithful people that were there, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They were like, "Listen, man. We we can't it's not that we, you know, it's not that we're trying to disrespect you unnecessarily.

but we can't bow down to your ideas of truth, your idea of reality when this is not the reality. And beloved, that's how we need to stand today. I know I know you might risk, you know, offending the transchristian community and they might be very upset with you and I get it. I understand. But the truth is the truth. We've got to learn to speak the truth in love. We've got to learn to speak the truth, to pray the truth, and to come close to these people. You know, I'm not saying run away from them or you're strange.

No, no, no. I mean, God calls us to draw close because he loves everybody, y'all. He loves everybody from the from the best of us to the worst of us. He loves us all. And ultimately, you guys, he wants to see us all saved. You understand? So while they may not understand and while they may be offended and you know you won't call me by my by my what I identify as you won't acknowledge that I'm a true Why not? It's not about the individual you guys. It's about the movement. And the movement has gotten into people's minds and told them and corrupted them to think you can be a Christian just by claiming the name Jesus.

That's all. If you claim the name Jesus, you can be you can be as mean, vindictive, you can be as whatever you want and and you can say, "Hey, this is the Christian way." And and and it just doesn't matter because as long as you say, "I'm a Christian." Then anything you do or say goes. So it's time to be born again. That's the conclusion. Take that person by the hand and and and and talk with them and pray with them. and show them in the Bible this is what it means to be a Christian and then invite them to actually follow You can be born again.

It is a miracle but it is a real thing. You can be born again. God can convert you. It is it is God's conversion therapy. And the Holy Spirit works out this conversion therapy to help you move from from a heart that is waxing cold to a heart that is on fire. From a heart that rejoices in in in in uh in false from a heart that says that a deceptive heart that says, "Hey, as long as long as I have these positions, I'm I'm I'm good. I check the Christian the the Christian box." Yep. Check, check, check.

I'm a Christian. And and the the evil people over there are the bad guys. I know the world says a lot about conversion therapy these days, but I'll tell you what, I believe that God's conversion therapy can change any trans Christian into a true Christian. If you believe that, put a one in the chat. We're going to close in prayer. Um, beloved, I pray um, and I want you to understand this message has come from a place of love and and I want you to know, trans Christian community, I love I love you.

I love you. I love you. And God loves you. And God wants to see you really stand up and be a light in the world. And you can do that. Just give your give your heart to Jesus and have him transform it and you will be able to bear fruit. It is possible. You will be able to bear fruit. You can change on the inside. You can literally become a genuine Christian. And that doesn't mean one that doesn't make mistakes, but it means one who understands that this is what it means to follow Jesus. and doing this is not following Jesus.

I see the one in the chat. I'm going to pray and then we're going to close out. Heavenly Father, I want to thank you, Lord, for this message. That is an appeal to the trans Christian community, Lord. That they will understand that the damage they are doing to your name, claiming Christianity while having the spirit of the enemy, the spirit of the world, the spirit of of fierceness and of and of politics and the spirit of of vengeance and the spirit of narcissism. All of these things, Lord, in the name of Christianity, it is driving millions of people around the world away from the gospel because people are seeing the hypocrisy.

Please Lord, please I pray that you would do something mighty in this trans-Christian community and help them Lord to come out of Babylon. That's what your word says because Babylon represents confusion and there is so much confusion out there that people are now confused about what it means to actually be a Christian. So Lord, call the transch Christian community out. May they hear the truth. May they undergo your conversion therapy. May they be able to be changed so that they can produce fruit.

And Lord, show them that they can be Christians, not just in form without power, but actually in the power of the Holy Spirit changing their inward sides. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for hearing and answering this prayer because we ask it in the precious and holy name of Jesus. Amen. And amen. Guys, thank you for listening um uh to the message today. I I want to just put up the final uh slide here that will let you know here is how you can uh get in touch with us for those of you who want to uh connect uh on the uh afterlow.

Uh we'll put that link in the chat. Uh you can see where you can follow us on social media. You can connect with uh LOC. you can put your prayer requests um submit your prayer requests as well. And for those of you who who want to get into Bible study classes to study for baptism purposes, uh there is the email bibleworker living.urch. Please reach out to us and uh we would love to walk you through the process of being baptized or even rebaptized. maybe being baptized for the first time, studying this message and understanding uh the Bible in all its fullness and glory.

And so again, that's how you can reach out and connect with us. And may God bless you. Uh may God keep you and we will see uh some of you. By the way, all of you are invited to the um to the afterlow. Uh the link is in the chat. So please feel free to jump on join us and may God bless you and keep you. Amen. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at living manana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God.

It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.