All right. Uh, can you guys hear me? Put a one in the chat. Good evening, everyone. Um, it is good to be with you all tonight. Um, I see you guys have been uh waiting and y'all look like y'all are excited and ready to go. So, again, just put a one in the chat if you could hear me well. Um, all right. All I needed to see was one one. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. All right, guys. So, um, we have, uh, something pretty significant to to talk about tonight, and I'm going to jump right in. We're not going to be on for long.

Um, but there are some pretty significant things that need to be shared. So, we're going to have a word of prayer. You guys, uh, share this link, let people know that we are live. Uh, tell them to tune in. Um, I have a message for for us today. This is this is for us. This is for 7th Day Adventist. And this is an appeal. Once again, it's an appeal. Um, so let me jump in. Let's pray. Let's get to this. I got some a couple of videos that I need to show you. Uh, and uh, we're going to talk about some pretty important things.

So, let's pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, I ask that you would please speak, Lord, to your people tonight, Lord. Um, speak as you have been speaking, Lord. Your voice has never changed. Your word has never changed. Um, Lord, help us to trust your word. Help us to obey your word. And we thank you for hearing and answering because we ask it in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Okay guys, so um we need to talk a little bit about project 2025 tonight. And um what I want to say is is first of all um our I praise God I praise God for being introduced to this Adventist message.

um our friend D introduced us to Daniel chapter 7, Babylon, Midapers, Greece, Rome. I remember that night, all of us in the house, um, smoking marijuana, doing our thing, having a conversation about the new world order, of which we knew nothing about. And then Dwight, a friend of a friend of ours, began asking us, "What day do we think the Sabbath is on?" And we thought it was such a weird and off-the-wall and crazy question. And that has to be the most important night in my life with without a shadow of a doubt.

And what I learned back then in 1994 1993 what I learned back then in 1993 um has so gripped me uh that it changed everything. So, y'all know left the music industry, left everything, me and my brother who who's now passed. Um, but left everything and followed this message because we believed it with all of our heart. And I still believe it with all of my heart. And to see the things that have been unfolding over the last uh the last decade easily um has just been mind-blowing. But it has been confusing to me, genuinely confusing to me how we are where we are and we're not making more noise than we're making right now.

The things we have prophesied, the things we have been warning for over 150 years at least. How is it that those things are right up on us right now and many of us are in denial? I'm going to be honest with you guys. Um, you know, I've always considered like, you know, what I would call in my own understanding the liberal Adventist. And what I mean by liberal Adventist would be the kind of person that I thought, you know, they're not even studying their Bible. They're like, "Yeah, this is fine and drinking alcohol is fine and you know all."

So, I've always kind of been like, "Yeah, you know, the li the liberal adventist who is just like, hey, whatever I think is right is right." Um, is going to be the greatest threat to the Adventist church. But seeing what has happened within within so-called conservative circles is really pretty scary, y'all. It is really pretty scary because there is almost near silence when it comes to the threat of Christian nationalism. It's almost like we're not going to talk bad about our team. Since when did we become teammates with Christian nationalism?

Don't understand it. Um, but I'm going to put that on pause for a second and I need to show you all something. I need to show you all something. So you'll remember um you know our current president said some time back that he had no idea about project 2025 what it was who the people were etc. And you know I I saw many adventists like really yeah see now it really doesn't matter. I've always said this you guys. It's prophecy is not about one person, right? The issue in these prophetic times is not about the president.

It is about a movement. It is about a movement that we were told would seek to hijack political power for their benefit. Put a one in the chat if that makes sense to you. We have prophesied that a religious power would seek to hijack political power in the name of Jesus in order to bring about the very things that prophecy has foretold. So Adventists should have never gotten caught up in, well, we're going to defend this party versus this party because all we were looking for was, well, who who is apo what power is apostate Protestantism going to seek to latch on to in order to fulfill prophecy?

It should not have mattered to us if they latched on to the Democratic party or an independent party or the Republican party. All we should have been looking for was was well who are they going to latch on to? No need to defend. No need to no no not them. All we need to do is plainly and clearly just step back and see okay who is apostate Protestantism? What political arm are they going to attempt to hijack, to infiltrate so that they can get laws explain to Bible believing Adventists what is clearly visible to the eye.

What everybody else in America is seeing and warning against. atheists warning against other Christians who don't believe as we believe but who clearly see what's going on warning against. And yet we have Adventists who are still saying, "Well, maybe the Sunday law can be passed by the godless people. Maybe the Sunday law can be passed nature. So, you remember I know nothing about project 2025, but let's go to the screen and I want you to just uh check out this article. Um, here we go. Politico and here is Paul Dans, the ousted director of Project 2025, saying he's delighted that Trump is implementing his agenda after all.

There you see the web the the the the website uh address beyond my wildest dreams the architect of project 2025 is ready for his victory lap. Now some of you may have seen this already and that's not even what I'm talking about. I mean it is what I'm talking about but this is not the main thing. What I want to show you um see if uh this second. Okay, so here we go. Economic Policy Institute. By the way, if you guys want these slides, I will make them available. And they're not many. They're not many.

Uh it's not a it's not a long presentation tonight, but I have a lot to say. Um but I'm gonna try to say it in a short time. Nominating Jonathan Barry as solicitor of labor. President Trump nominated Jonathan Barry as a solicitor of labor at the Department of Labor, DO. If confirmed, Barry will be the chief legal officer at DO and have the independent authority to initiate laws to enforce more than 180 federal labor laws, including the Fair Labor Standard Act and Occupational Safety and Health Act.

Barry is currently a managing partner at Bdon Gray and Associates PLLC. Previously, listen to this now. Previously, Barry served as the acting assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Labor during the f the first Trump administration. Barry also authored project 2025's section on the Department of Labor and other labor related agencies which call for weakening federal minimum wage, limiting overtime eligibility, and undermining workers rights to a union by forcing secret ballot elections.

Now, Jonathan Barry is one of the authors who authored the section on labor in project 2025. Now, how you do not know the people who authored project 2025 and yet they are holding multiple positions in the cabinet is just kind of strange to me. But be that as it may, let's let's hear what Jonathan Barry had to say in that section on the Department of Labor um that he wrote in Project 25 that he authored in Project 2025. We're going to go to the next slide and uh I want y'all to listen. This is an interview.

Jonathan uh Jonathan Barry is being interviewed here and I want you to just listen to what he has to say. Go ahead and let's play that on those issues. Yes, for sure. Um but there there are implications for social conservative values across many issues. Uh, one of the interesting proposals um that that you've laid out in in project 2025 handbook from heritage is uh stuff around the Sabbath. What what are some of the ideas that you have there? Yes. Um, so uh this is it sounds it sounds controversial.

Um uh in many respects it is a it is a return to something that basically always everyone ever had. um uh and it it's specifically the idea of um encouraging Sabbath rest um through discouraging commerce um on on the Sabbath. Um the the the proposal that's in our book is uh amending the the basic federal overtime law, Fair Labor Standards Act to require that overtime be paid uh for all work uh done on the Sabbath. Um Oh, interesting. Yes. Um, so I don't think um uh I don't think I don't think Congress has um the authority to mandate like a national closing on on the Sabbath.

This was that was always a a state decision um to do that. But I let me add it was always a state decision to to do that. they didn't. And and yeah, I'm not, you know, I'm not saying this practice was uniform, homogeneous, whatever, but um very very widely spread and only only recently in the last um few decades um have uh have most states moved moved away from this. Um so this is um I think this is about as far as the federal government could could properly go in this space. Um but it would be an encouragement and inducement um uh to um to to rest really to kind of coordinate commercial activity for the other six days of of the week which is as for as as long as we've had sabotarian uh civilization you know beginning like beginning in Israel and continuing into Christendom.

Um this is something that's been increasingly a part of the rhythm of civic life. uh most importantly for people to have space to worship and honor God. Um and and secondly to have times of communal rest uh with their families and with their communities. Do you think in a in an America where family formation has plummeted, the commercialization of every part of life is is is continuing and abundant um and religious observance is is down. Yes. Do you think this would just result in like people getting paid more on Sunday and but but it would look all the same?

I So I think I think there would be some of that like I I don't think this is a I don't think this is a panacea. Um uh it's but the law look the law is a real teacher. Um I think this would I think it would prompt as as all laws do um meaningful reflection by by serious numbers of people about um the importance of rest and what what rest is for uh and and separate and apart from uh its hordatory function um it's it it changes economic incentives and so I I do think you would have a lot of employers who would be shifting work a lot of a lot of employers do a fair amount of this already because a lot of people naturally disfavor um Sabbath work for what for whatever reason and often command some kind of premium um to uh to work on that.

now as a church we have been we have been saying listen a Sunday law is not going to be it's not going to be a secular Sunday law. The Sunday law is designed to bring worship to God, the God of the Bible, not the God of nature, not new Aagism, not secularism, a a so-called green Sabbath being passed just for the earth to to, you know, be at rest. and and and atheists are like, "Hey, I got I got the day off, whatever." That's not what we're talking about here in prophecy. We already have a weekend.

People get Saturdays off, Sundays off. We already have a weekend. That's not what is being spoken of here. What is being spoken of here is worship of the Christian God. That's the kind of Sunday law that's going to be passed. Now, I've said this time and time again. When we cry wolf over everything, everything is a Sunday law. This going to lead to Sunday law and this going to lead to Sunday. Then nothing leads to Sunday law. And and we lose credibility. Listen to me y'all. We lose credibility when we continue to cry.

Wolf wolf wolf wolf wolf. Sunday law Sunday. Sunday law. Sunday law. You remember? Y'all remember a couple years COP 26, COP 27. This was going to be it. It was going to be a great Now listen y'all. There was no need. There was never any need for us to go anywhere near there because prophecy already told us this is what's going to happen. We don't need to guess. We don't need to conjecture. We don't We just sit back and relax and wait and let it come. Now, let me be clear to say y'all, and I'm going to say, and you're going to be like, "But pastor, you're saying what?"

Here's what I'm telling you. Even though you heard what you just heard, and even though Project 2025 includes this plan that you've just heard Jonathan Barry say himself, nobody putting it in his mouth, him saying it himself, a Sunday law still will be violently opposed if they were to pass it. Now, please understand what I'm saying. you if you were quiet about Christian nationalism before and now it's like, "Oh, okay. Yeah, prophecy was exactly what it said it was going to be." So now I'm going to start doing this, this, this, and this.

And you guys, we must we must return to studying the Bible. We cannot jump at everything because when we jump at everything, we lose credibility. And what I'm saying to you now, beloved, is even though talk of a Sunday law is now happening at the highest levels of our government. All that's happening right now is God is showing us where their minds are. That's what he's doing. He's just showing us, listen, I want you to see they are thinking about this. Other things need to happen. This is not yet it.

I'm not on here to say, "All right, everybody, it's time to panic." What I'm here to say is, can we please return to a solid study of the Bible and not jump on the bandwagons that take us away from what we have always taught as prophecy? I'm going to show you why this is so important. Let's go back. I'm going to show you one more video and then we're going to do a little Bible study. A very little Bible study. But y'all need to see this because we need to talk about shiny objects. Before we do that, I want you to check out this next video.

Um and and then what are what are the pitches? What are sort of like here's you know I think you mentioned in your article sort of like we need to particularly post pandemic where all lines between work and home have been blurred and there's there's you know sometimes I like working from home on Friday if I can but general matter I liked the days when we went into the office because then we went home from the office. Yes. and we were home, you know. Um, so how do you so you pitch the idea of maybe sort of, you know, having more sort of um, you know, rules around keeping the Sabbath holy, right?

Um, so what are what are the I guess the big picture? How do we sell America on this vision of labor is good? Um and and and and sacred and um and uh and also then what are we how do we what what what are you on day one take into the new Secretary of Labor, you know? So my my I I I probably my probably my biggest recommendation here um to take to to go a step more concrete than than work as service as valuable as I think that is as the as the overall frame is promoting um promoting worker agency promoting worker ownership.

Um, these are and that's I and I mean that in both the the formal sense of of ownership and also the colloquial sense of of ownership. Both of which I know that lots of business owners, you know, I'm I'm the I'm the managing partner of a legal boutique. I'm a small business owner and um the level of of ownership and investment by my by my employees matters a lot um to to me and to the su success of our firm. Um so one one very concrete and tangible example of this is um Congress uh last year I want to say um passed a a new law to um facilitate encourage the formation of ESOPS employee stock ownership plans um or programs um which through uh Orisa the main retirement uh benefits law um has a there's a setting where you can have you can reduce some of the inherent asymmetries you have between uh an employer and individual workers not into collective bargaining though that that has its legitimate role as well and then you you alluded to this but uh something that something I really encourage I don't see a big it's harder to see a big federal role for this I think this is more a question of state and local law is um reinvigorating where possible Sabbath rest laws um that having as long as you still buy beer on the Sabbath, right?

It's weird. Like what's what's weird is the sort of the the sort of the specifically anti-alcohol either like either either no business or all business, not just like just anti-alcohol. It's it's a little it's a little strange. I I think if we trace some of the history there, um I think I think you know the Catholics might not like what they might not like what they find. Um but um to be very to be very specific like it used to this was basically the norm through as best I I've looked into this some working on some research on this um really going literally dating back to Constantine um and his recognition of Christianity in the Roman Empire that you've had a pretty consistent tradition in in Western civilization of of taking like taking Sunday off uh from from commerce.

Um, this of course this is a tradition that has roots not only in Christianity but in in Judaism, right? Um, and and keeping the Sabbath holy. Um, and having a having a time not only for it's not merely from rest in the sense of of of abstinence from work, but it's it's rest for it's rest for time with God, time worshiping God. It's rest for time with community or and even before in between is time with family. um the the lack one of the things that I think has been so um so harmful to the world of work and how we think about work is the lack of of kind of well-defined and shared times for rest.

Um one of the best uh pieces on this from a a secular secular-ish author um named uh Judith Schulvitz put this in the Atlantic a few years ago called Why You Never See Your Friends Anymore. Um and she opens with talking about the Soviet experiment in abolishing the 7-day uh week, replacing it with a five-day week where just 1if of all the people are randomly assigned like you will have this day off, you will have this day off. It was a debacle. Um and within a few years even the Soviets had to admit this was a very bad idea.

like the these are like you know these are the masters of the even the goolog people thought like thought that this was a bad idea like we can't keep doing this. Um so having that having more of that steadier rhythm of work and rest would be so much healthier so much happier and help people more readily connect with the purpose of their work. Being able to push back from your work allows you to more readily see it as service to God, service to family, service to community. um than the the weird um kind of soup of half rest, half work that we all seem to be floating in all the time.

That think like teleawwork makes that harder to to to see um often times. Um and um and likewise just the ad the advent of like lots of recreational internet use in the middle of the workday. And you may have heard him mention uh telework So meaning, hey, if you're working from home, there's no real clear distinction between work and rest. And I don't know, but I suspect that part of this whole y'all have to go back to work uh uh thing that's happening may have something to do with that. Now, I don't know.

That's just me conjecturing, supposing. However, please note what he just said because some people when when project 202 2025 was written and you know they were like well this is not really a Sunday law cuz they make mention of Sabbath and Sunday or Saturday and Sunday. Please note what he just said here. He just said listen in Russia they were giving everybody the days they wanted and it was this kind of soupy just didn't work. It was a debacle. So it's better to have shared time together the same time together.

Remember you guys, it starts mild. It starts mild, but it will get progressively worse. And what's crazy about this, you guys, is that so many I'll hold my thought. Let's go back to the screen. I'm gonna come back to this thought. Let's go back to the screen. And this is um this is an article written just recently. Christian nationalists and project 20 2025 had a have a radical scheme to remake your weekends. Wow. Wow. Let's keep moving. Next slide. Americans United. So that's that's the website is from Americans United have been sounding the alarm about project 2025, a radical Christian nationalist blueprint to remake American society along theoccratic lines.

Project 2025 is exactly what you would expect from Christian nationalists. It calls for restricting reproductive freedoms and rolling back LGBTQ rights. and it seeks to install an extreme vision of religious freedom that would enable people to use their faith to ignore many civil rights and other secular laws. But there's another section that could affect every American that should not be overlooked. The architects of Project 2025 want to control how you spend your weekend. Come on, somebody. Let's keep moving.

Next slide. A section on employment policy written by Jonathan Bry, a member of the Conservative Federalist Society, would, if implemented, subject Americans leisure time to government oversight by limiting what you can do on Sundays. God ordained the Sabbath as a day of rest. And until very recently, the Judeo-Christian tradition sought to honor that mandate, that mandate, that mandate by moral and legal regulation of work on that day. Barry writes, Elsewhere, he adds, unfortunately, that communal day of rest has eroded under the pressures of consumerism and secularism.

this. I don't understand how we as Adventists have argued, well, you don't know where the Sunday law can come from. Really, we don't know where the Sunday law can come from. It could come from secularists. Really, secularists are going to say, "Hey guys, you need to worship Jesus on Sunday." Secularists are really going to do that. what is so often called the godless party is going to go ahead and seek to implement worship of Jesus through a Sunday Sabbath. How did we get to the place where we're now confused or we don't know or can't say for sure what we have always known for sure, which is that apostate Christianity was going to hijack politics in order to pass a Sunday law.

How is it even possible for this confusion to be going on? Let me show you something. Let's go back to the screen. I want you to see this. Nationwide anti-Trump protest planned for April 19th. What to know? Do you all see that? Let me ask you a question. If if a Sunday law were passed today, do you think that America would be like, "Oh, well, there's a Sunday law. We've now got to worship Jesus. All right, everyone. Let's go. Put a one in the chat if you think that they would do that. Put a nine in the chat if you know that they would not do that.

So, one in the chat if you think Project 2025 a Sunday law gets passed and now everybody is going to be like, "All right, we're going to go along with this." Absolutely, Sherwin. People just don't want to hear it. It's kind of sad to me that we've almost degraded prophecy to to sports. Your team is going to lose. No, your team is going to lose. No, your team Well, what about your What did your team do? Wait a minute, y'all. We have teams in this. Why are we defending teams? Now, some people have said, "Well, pastor, how come how come you don't talk about the the wrongs that that this group is doing?"

Which is almost like asking me, "How come you don't talk about the the evils of Islam? It's not that I don't talk about these things. It's that prophecy says yes, all kinds of things are going to be happening in the world. Yes, there will be uh uh Islamic terrorists and yes, you know, there will be X Y and Z and other things happening. But I want you to know that according to the Bible, the main antagonist at the time of the end will be a religial political power. Keep your eyes locked on that. And yet for so many of us, we're treating this religial political power as this as if it's our team.

Well, how do you know it's going to be this religio political power? It could be. I need y'all to see this. Selected messages volume 3, page 428 says this. They declared that they had the truth. Next slide. They declared that they had the truth. That miracles were among them. That angels from heaven talked with them and walked with them. That great power and signs and wonders were performed among them. And that this was the temporal millennium they had been expecting so long. The whole world was converted and in harmony with the Sunday law.

Stop for a second. Come back. Let's Let's What does it mean that the whole world was converted? If the whole world is converted, are there still Muslims who don't believe that Jesus is is God? Are there still atheists? Are there still secularists? Are there are there still newagers? No. No. No. No, no, no, no. All of those things cease because everybody, the whole world is converted. So now the simple question is what is it that converts the whole world? Well, here's what we do know from this quote that at this time the whole world is saying this is the long awaited millennium.

Well, what does a Christian world think the millennium is? The Christian world believes that the millennium is when Jesus has come and sets up a thousand years of peace on the earth. And they cannot believe that the millennium begins without Jesus being here. Are y'all following me? If the people at this time, if the whole world is converted and everybody's saying this is the one, this is the 10,000 years, the millennium, it must be that something supernatural happened. And that supernatural thing is the coming of Jesus.

But it's not Jesus. Y'all understand now that even if Project 2025 succeeded in attempting to pass a Sunday law that it would only cause more rebellion, it would only cause a a a rebellion and uprising, marches, protests. But that's not what Revelation says. Revelation doesn't say there going to be protests from all different kinds of Revelation says that the whole world will be united against a small group. Come on, let's go back to screen. The whole world was converted and in harmony with the Sunday law.

And this little feeble people stood out in defiance of the laws of the land. Not atheists, not the LGBTQ community, not the Marxists, not the communists. A little feeble people stood out in defiance of the law, which means everybody else is on board. Here's why I'm telling y'all this, y'all. Because if the Sunday law is not passed, for some of y'all in the next four years, you're going to be like, and we don't need to have that position. We don't need to say the Sunday law is going to be passed in the next four years.

That shouldn't be coming out of our mouths because prophetically speaking, there is nothing that anyone can do to convert the whole world And beloved, when that miracle happens, there's no warning. That's why all 10 virgins are sleeping when midnight strikes. It's not something that you can see coming down the road. Beloved, what I'm telling you is this. Yes. Project 25 2025 is significant. But you know what you're gonna see? You're gonna see a whole bunch of people who weren't talking about it before who are now like, "Okay, well, I better start talking about it now."

And I'm going to go to the other extreme of, "Yep, it's coming. Sunday law is about to pass in the next two months, in the next three months." And listen, y'all, the there's a reason I'm pointing there's a reason why it is so important for us to be balanced when it comes to prophecy, y'all. Let's talk about shiny objects and then we're going to wrap this up. How many of you know what shiny object syndrome is? Put a one in the chat if you know what shiny object syndrome is. One in the chat. Shiny object syndrome.

All right, let me go to the screen. Um, shiny objects. Shiny object syndrome is the inclination to be quickly sidetracked by fresh and thrilling possibilities frequently resulting uh in the abandonment of ongoing tasks or objectives causing a reduction in productivity and hindering advancement towards long-term goals, missions, etc. Shiny object syndrome. It's a phenomenon where individuals or businesses get caught up in the allure of new ideas, projects, or opportunities, neglecting or abandoning ongoing efforts.

Let's go to the next slide. Causes. What causes shiny object syndrome? A fear of missing out. The constant pursuit of new things can stem from a fear of missing out on potential opportunities. Lack of focus. Shiny object syndrome can indicate difficulty in staying focused on a single task or project. Surface level attract surface level attractiveness. People may be drawn to the shininess or perceived value of new ideas without fully evaluating their practicality or long-term viability. I want to suggest to you y'all.

I want to suggest to you that many of us have shiny object syndrome. We do not know how to stay focused on what prophecy says. So, anything that comes up that seems like it can be a crisis or seems like it can be a time of trouble or seems like this could lead to the mark of the beast, we are off on it. Yes. I'm going to be a martyr for this. And we get distracted by shiny objects. And as we're being distracted from shiny objects, we're quiet on the thing that matters the most. Our church right now is in march.

We're in turmoil right now. Inner turmoil. talk talks about splitting the church and and and leadership and this and that and and and you know the church is now Babylon because uh they don't believe in in uh they believe in the trinity and and all kinds of shiny objects, climate change, The Pope said this over here. It's amazing to me how I'm hearing people talk people talking about everything else that's going on around the the globe and in Rome and here and there and there but very little very few people were talking about the were warning about Christian nationalism and what was coming.

It was almost like it was taboo to say anything about Christian nationalism. And if you said something about Christian nationalism, you were just I don't know woke. Let's go back to consequences. Let's go back to the screen. So what are the consequences of un of a of a shiny object shiny object syndrome? Individuals or business may start numerous projects but fail to complete them leading to a backlog of unfinished work. Unfinished work. Reduce productivity. Constant switching between task and projects can significantly hinder productivity and progress.

Missed opportunities. By constantly chasing after rabbits, I mean new ideas, individuals or businesses may miss out on opportunities to build up their current strength and develop existing projects. Do you think that Satan would love to have us miss out on opportunities? What do y'all think? What do you all think? If there is anyone, any voice that should have been heard the loudest warning against what project 2025 was proposing and the hijacking of a Christian movement. uh the the Christian movement hijacking a particular political brand.

That voice should have been the voice of Adventists. But no, no, no, no, no, no. Instead, we were busy. I want to say we were busy, but I need to say we are busy still chasing after shiny objects. The devil has let loose so many cute bunnies. We're about to wrap this up. We're about to wrap this up. Um, so what is the what is the silver object? The shiny silver thing. I'm going to give you a story from the Old Testament. Let's go. Do y'all recognize this picture? It's not the actual picture, but what is this?

What is this about? What is this about? Uh uh Queen, please note, I hear you. Please note, I'm not criticizing the church. That's not what I'm doing. What I'm talking about, what I'm doing, what I'm what I'm addressing here is a very unfortunately already very dangerous position that members of the church are in. So, we're not talking about X, Y, and Z. We're talking about people in the church that are being distracted by shiny objects. I hope you get that. So, what picture did y'all just see? This is not an actual picture of the thing, but it is a picture of the golden calf.

Shiny objects. I want you to check this out, y'all. In Exodus 32:1, listen to what the Bible says. And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and said unto him, "Up, make us gods, which shall go before us. For as for this, Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we want not what is become of him." And Aaron said unto them, "Break off the golden earrings, which are in your in the ears of your wives, and your sons, and your daughters, and bring them unto me."

And all the people break off the golden earrings which were in their ears and brought them unto Aaron. And Aaron received them at their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool after he had made it a molten calf. And they said, "These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt." And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made proclamation and said, "Tomorrow is the feast of the Lord." And they rose up early on the tomorrow and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings.

And the people sat down to eat and to drink and rose up to play. Now, I need to break this story down just for a few moments longer and then we're done. Listen to me, y'all. Moses had gone away. And now in the minds of the people, in the minds of the people, he's taking too long to come back. In the minds of the people, Sunday law is taking too long to happen. In the minds of the people, prophecy is taking too long to happen. Is it going to happen the way we were we were told? Is the prophecy sure?

Is it certain? Are things the way is it going to happen this way? And so when Moses doesn't return when they expect, what do they do? They the people clamor for a new God. They they want a shiny object. I hope y'all are catching this. They needed something. And watch this now. Aaron who was the priest. Aaron who was the leader. Listen to me y'all. We have a lot of Aarons who are giving the people who want shiny objects. Aaron was this type of person. Well, okay. So, what do the people want? All right.

I'll give them what they want. I'll give them what they want. Beloved, God forbid that we as ministers, that we as preachers, that we as ministries, that we as independent ministries be like Aaron in giving the people what they want because there's a delay. And oh, what are the people clamoring for? All right. Well, I'mma jump on this because that's what the people want. That's what I'm going to give them. And we are creating golden calves of prophecy. We are creating golden calves that are redirecting the minds of the people at a time when the people are clamoring because they want to know what's going on.

You know, things are taking so what's going on. The last thing we should be doing is creating golden calves, creating shiny images to say, "Come on, people. Let's get worked up over this. Come on." And and watch what Aaron did. Aaron said, "This is a feast unto the Lord." This is a feast unto the Lord. Aaron was after clicks and views. Aaron, we like you. We like you. You're telling us what we want to hear. You're telling us what we want to hear. preachers stay silent or curb what needs to be said because we want to please people.

calf. It's interesting that it was a golden calf that the people started worshiping. Let's go to the last slide. Um, what is the golden calf in the last days? What is the golden calf in the last days? Yeah, it's another beast with horns, horns like a that many Adventists have been so caught up in the shiny thing that the golden calf for us now, the golden calf that has entered into the midst of the church is apostate Protestantism. is that movement that has merged Christianity with politics and says if you're a true Christian this is what you believe and if you're a true Christian this is what you stand against and if you're a true Christian then this is how you should this be the these be thy gods could it be that the shiny object that seems to now be controlling whatever is said on certain platform forms and whatever is believed in certain circles now finds it way its way into Adventism.

And I'm going to tell you something, the populist movement, the populist movement in which the view that the government is evil. And that's so strange y'all because in prophecy it's not the government that's evil. It's Christians who hijack the government that's evil. That's what prophecy says. But here we have a movement saying the government is evil and unless we take over the government, we are all going to be doomed. And that spirit of overthrowing the leadership and overthrowing and draining the swamp.

Could is it possible that that same spirit that is running a muck in Christian nationalism has now entered into the church to now where it is a it is a pat on the back to be like, "Yeah, man. The leadership of our church, we need to drain the swamp. The leaders of our church, they are wicked. They It's cruel now. It's You want You want You want um uh virtue signaling. Call the Call the leadership of the church evil. Call the leadership of the church Babylon. Compare the leadership of the church to the papacy or the pope, the wicked.

Just do that and you'll be like, "Oh, you're present truth. Wow." Yeah, man. You're present truth. Beloved, understand that ex the exact spirit which now says, "I have no respect for the leadership of the government." Remember what Paul said? Paul said the government was ordained of God. Not that the government is godly, but the government is ordained of God. So this idea of they're crooked and they may be and God still says obey the government as long as they do not cross uh uh or or tell you to go against my will.

First four commandments. And now the same spirit in in this religion political power that seeks to put distrust in the government and don't trust and they're lying and they're this and they're that. That same spirit has now entered the golden calf has now entered into Adventism. There were one people There was it was the Levites while everybody else was going on this frenzy of forget about Moses and worshiping the golden. There was one people, one tribe, the Levites, who are like, "Yeah, we're not done with this.

Nope. We're not down against this rebel. We're not done with this rebellion. We're not down with this. You know, we're going to we're going to go a new route. we're going to we're going to believe a new way. Nope, we're not down with that. And my appeal to you is this, guys, because it's getting to the place now where appeals are just falling on deaf ears. So for those that have ears hear, for those that have ears to hear, stay the course, y'all. Stay the course. Get into your word. No one's saying put trust in the GC.

No one's saying put trust in men. Nobody said that. Pastor Myers didn't say that. That didn't come out my mouth. Listen. Listen carefully. No one is saying to what I am saying is that the devil is the master of mental manipulation to the point where he got a third of the angels to distrust God himself. So if at the end of time we know that the dragon is the one attacking the woman attacking the church, then it would behoove us not to be a part of any movement that attacks the church. I didn't say that.

Ellen White said that. And listen y'all. Even the bearing of false witness. Even the bearing of false witness. Some of us need to be very careful y'all. Pastor Myers said this. Pastor Myers said that. Pastor Myers call this this one or this one that. Listen y'all. The bearing of fault. We heard Jesus say, "Destroy this temple and and he will build it again in." We heard him say with our own ears. We heard him. Listen. The devil is a master manipulator and his whole goal is to cause us to turn our weapons on one another.

It's it's very sad you guys. Some some of us are going to come to the real to the realization of how deceived and led astray we were because we refuse to have our hearts softened by the Holy Spirit. When Moses, when Naab and Abaiu, when Kora and his people were killed, you know what the people said? After God destroyed them, they turned around and said, "You have killed the people of the Lord." The time is coming where if it were possible, even the very elect would be deceived. And I'm just going to say this and I'm going to close y'all.

If your heart is not right with God, it will be easy for the devil to deceive you. It'll be easy. My appeal. My appeal, you guys. is tested by the word. Get back into the Bible. Stop chasing shiny objects. Yes, Nicole. Babylon has some strong wine. And I think it only takes a sip, y'all. It only takes a sip to have you totally drunk. All right, that's it. I am I'm done. Um, please study you guys. Please study things. Prophecy is unfolding before our eyes. And the one thing the devil wants more than anything is for the church to disintegrate, to f to to Father, Lord, thwart the enemy's plans.

Lord, help us to stop chasing objects and stay committed to what you have spoken through the word and through your prophet. Lord, remove every new version of prophecy. Remove the idea that that that the Sunday law could come from anywhere and from anybody. Lord, help us to remember what the prophecy actually says. And Lord, remove the spirit of antagonism. Remove this populist uprising that is happening in our church, in our midst, under a disguise of righteousness. Remove it, Lord. Expose it for what it is.

It is coming from many different corners, many different factions saying, "The church is Babylon because of this. The church is Babylon because they no longer believe this. The church is Babylon because X Y andZ. Lord, remove that. There is a Leodysian message. But that is not it. It is not that the church is Babylon. It is not that the church is fallen. It is not that the church has become like the papacy. It is none of those things. Lord, the real issue is our heart issue. We are we are not loving people.

We're not loving one another. We have lamps without please open the eyes of your people. Open the eyes of those even now steeped in this deception. Wake us up, Lord, because the time is near. Thank you Lord for hearing and for answering. We pray this in Jesus name. Amen. All right y'all. Um thank you for uh for tuning in. Um I am uh y'all haven't seen me on, you know, Power of the Lamb in a little while because I've been going, you know, through the loss of my brother and dealing with that. And um I'm going to be on more often and we're going to be dealing with these issues more often.

So just know you're like, "Where's Pastor Myers been?" Just know uh I am not silent. I will not be silent. Um so y'all pray for me and pray for our church and pray y'all that we get back on track in Jesus name. Amen. Uh if you don't follow the channel, make sure you subscribe. As I go live, you'll get notifications. So, make sure you do that. And again, may God bless you and may God keep you.