Welcome to a Power of the Lamb Ministries live event. We are happy to be here with you. for us. We're starting our Sabbath with you this evening. So, I don't know what part of the world you are in. Maybe Sabbath has not come for you yet. Uh but when it does come, happy Sabbath. And maybe you're in the part of the world that it's been for a while, but we are just happy to be with you here uh this evening. Yeah, we got uh somebody's asking if this is a sermon for tomorrow. No, no, no. This is actually This is the power of the lamb.

This is the power of the lamb. This is not living mana event. So see power of the lamb. See see I don't have my t-shirt message on. Tried to dress a little different for power of the lamb so you guys can tell the difference. Um so yeah we we got a lot to talk about tonight. Yes. And uh we're glad you guys have joined in. So thank you for starting your Sabbath with us. Yeah. Yeah. We are just going to invite you um to invite others, share this link. Uh let people know that we are live and that uh we're going to be talking tonight about some pretty important things.

Some very important things. Some things that will be um that will be a a cause for pause and serious reflection. So, um, tune in. Tune in tomorrow for the Yeah. for the t-shirt message. Um, so guys, go ahead and hit that share button. Let people know that we're on live. Um, invite, invite, invite. And by the way, if you are not subscribed to Power of the Lamb, That's right. YouTube page. Make sure you subscribe. Please subscribe. If you're subscribed to Living Mana Church YouTube page, that's great.

Thank you. We appreciate that. But um Power of the Lamb is a separate ministry and entity. So if you're only subscribed to Living Mana, um you won't get Power of the Lamb notifications. So because they're they're two separate things. So please um just please subscribe if you are visiting with us. If you've have this is your first time and or you've you've watched Power of the Lamb events before, but you've still never subscribed, please do that this evening. Yeah. So guys, we're gonna jump in because like I said, we've got a lot to talk about and um thank you John Coleman and like.

Yeah. Subscribe and like. Yeah. So, um let's uh let's pray. Okay. And then we're going to jump in. And and by the way, tonight we're dealing with, if you do not know, if you didn't see the uh the post from Facebook or um any of our other social media, we're going to be talking about prophetic bloopers. We're going to be talking about prophetic bloopers and that is going to be the segue to talk about some other things as well. Um but uh so we're going to be covering a a couple of different things tonight.

Uh but hopefully we'll be able to we'll be able to to get it all done. So yes, we're going to pray and uh then we're going to jump in and my job is to learn with all of you and to She has no idea what I'm doing. I I really don't. I mean I not no idea but just just generally I know what we're talking about and um my job is to again slow everything down so that we all catch it. Yeah. We know what's going on as like we said four years ago as if a 10-year-old like you're explaining to a 10-year-old.

Yep. So let's pray. Okay. And let's uh let's jump in. Heavenly Father, we thank you Lord for uh giving us this opportunity Lord to uh just come before your people. And we ask Lord that you would just guide our words, guide our thoughts. Pray Lord that those that are listening, those that are watching and that will watch Lord will just um Lord take this message to heart. Please Lord speak to your people is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right. So um there's been a lot going on in the Adventist world.

Um has been. And uh one of the big things that has happened that has gotten a lot of people talking and we're not talking about that tonight, but um the departure of you know, a well-known um Adventist person. Um and you know, people were surprised, people were shocked, people were dismayed. Um and there's been a lot going on with that, you know, just about that that discussion. Mhm. And um I think one of the things that really sticks out for me right now and I think is it is important for us as a people to understand is that uh we really have to know what we believe.

Yes. And you c you can be in the church for years and actually not be certain, not be sure, or actually literally not know what you believe and just kind and you might be confident until you're faced with something, right? Like you feel like you're in the right place and it it seems like it's true and you kind of just go with the flow. And the first time I think this is years ago that I think I mentioned it to you um that I could really see an issue um because I mean you were and still are I mean you're a pastor ordained pastor but when we were in the brickandmortar church and you did evangelistic series where I'm sitting in the pew and I'm right there with the other people I would always tell you it's like it's like as if um when it comes to prophecy and answering questions it was just like uh Uh people were in a days.

Sometimes they would repeat what was cliche. Yeah. But they were like in a days. Not You could tell there was a days like they're still not really understanding. I mean they they just know they're just repeating what they've always heard. And then nobody really checks in with anybody like, "Do you really know this? Do you really know?" You know, it's just and you just go with the flow. Yeah. And that's what that is across the board in Adventism. And not not that it's everybody. No, it's not everybody, but it's just everywhere.

Yeah. We can take for granted what we believe to be true. And um I know that for me, like my personal journey coming into this church, first of all, was a challenge because I'm in the music industry and you know, now I'm considering leaving money and fame. I'm glad you said that because I'm gonna make a correction to what I said. People like you who studied your way into the church, you guys know the majority and even then even the majority that you're pretty good because you studied your way in.

Yeah. But then my kind of people, fourth generation or just born into the church, those are the m a lot of them are dazed. Yeah. Yeah. Um not everybody. Yeah. But a lot. Yeah. So, so I know for me, like I said, studying and coming into the church was one thing. Making a decision to leave the music industry, to leave everything that was on the table for us, that took a lot of I better make sure that that this is the right thing for me. And it didn't take me long, you guys. Like, six months of studying this and I was like, there is no other truth.

There is no other way. Like, this is it. And then when I came into the church, it was like a whole new level of I got to really know what I believe because, you know, coming in from the hip-hop industry and the way I would approach a scripture, there were a lot of people that were like, "Man, that is amazing. How did you see that?" But then there were other people who were like, "How'd you get that?" And like people would actually challenge me like, you know, you're making stuff up and blah blah blah.

Mhm. And I remember that that got me to the point where I was like, you know what? Whatever I believe, whatever I'm preaching, I'm going to have to be able to defend every point of every sermon that I ever preach. And I began to like approach my sermons that way. So that should anyone ever come to me and be like, "Well, how'd you get this? Well, where'd you get that from?" I had to because I was getting it because I was approaching the scriptures so differently and it it made me dig even deeper than what I thought I was already digging.

Also, it when you came in, your parents thought you were absolutely crazy. Yeah. They thought you were crazy for what you were teaching and crazy to leave the music industry for something that's crazy. So, you wanted to to prove them wrong. Yeah. You wanted your parents to understand it. you dug really really deep and I don't know throughout I remember like in our well I don't know about our well yeah earlier days in ministry I would I would say do you remember this I'd say do you have to use so many Bible text in your sermon to prove the point I was like can't you use less just okay so in my early days I would use that is that comes from that you're so thorough you're going to use you try to seal off any area where people can come in might be able to be like this is wrong Nope.

I can teach you like this. This is what my husband does. Or and you guys witness it all the time. Every every Sabbath you witness it. But he he's in my mind I'm seeing you like you're like I can teach you like this or I can teach you like this. I can teach you like this. But it's going to be the same thing. I'm coming at all these directions with all these scriptures to teach you the same thing. Like you want it to be Bible proof. Yeah. Yeah. Like we say, Bible all day. Bible all day, right? But Bible proof.

Yeah. So, I wanna I wanna um the reason I set the stage for that is to prepare for this quote that I'm about to read. So, we're going to go to the screen. Let's go to the screen. And um we're going to be talking tonight, prophetic bloopers. We're going to be talking about the Pope's death. We're going to talking about the UN in prophecy and how all of this relates to Adventism. So here's the first statement that um I want you to see here. It says, "It is not enough to have good intentions. It is not enough to do what a man thinks is right or what the minister tells him is right.

His soul salvation is at stake and he should he should search the scriptures for himself. However strong may be his convictions, however confident he may be that the minister knows what is truth, that is not his foundation. He has a chart pointing out every way mark on the heavenward journey and ought not to guess at anything. ought not to guess at anything. Um we shouldn't be guessing at anything or right guessing assuming or assuming Um, Ellen White makes a statement where she says, "Many of us think we know what we believe and then when we are actually brought face to face with a challenge and we're not around the people that we depend upon, we will find that we cannot explain intelligently what we believe and why we believe it."

Right? That is uh that's a troubling thought that you can be an Adventist and think you know what you believe and then when tested on it when asked to present Bible evidence for why you believe what you believe many will not be able to do it right are not able to do it. It doesn't matter how passionate you are about what you believe. Can you actually demonstrate it from the Bible? And and again, this sets the foundation for what we're going to talk about tonight. Everybody knows that the Pope um pass passed away.

He's dead. Mhm. And really causes a lot of trouble for a lot of people because there was so many prophecies given of what this pope was going to do. So, I'm going to ask you, put a one in the chat if um if you are um if you're an ad if you are an Adventist who has heard that because this was the first Jesuit pope that he was certainly or most certainly or most definitely going to bring in a National Sunday just put a one in the chat if you heard something along those lines or or something like um you know the the this is according to Revelation chapter 17 uh there are seven popes that are supposed to uh or six popes one isn't one is and the eighth one to come and Pope Francis is that eighth one.

This is it. Look at all these ones, guys. Is is is am is is my head under the rock. Like I never when you said you were going to do this, I was like, have a lot of people heard that. Is that real people? But I guess I've seen all the ones. So, you were right. This is the last pope. because I never focus I I I just never focus on one pope. I mean because it's the system of Catholicism. So why focus on one pope that was never I guess that's why I just didn't pay attention to and all the ones are still coming in.

All the ones are still coming in. There was so much speculation made about this pope as there will be about the next pope. Are you Are you all with me so far? And what what Okay, Tiffany Britt is with me. She's a two. Okay. Okay, Tiffany. Me and you. So, what does that say? And there are a lot of Adventists that that believe this that were like, "Yeah, you know, it it it's this pope, etc. And it was like that for the pope before. And I think one of the problems because now people are having to bury, you know, like kind of revamp what they had been saying.

And that's troubling, guys, because we're not supposed to approach prophecy like this. I had people emailing me like, you know, this is the eighth pope um and the one that before, you know, continue the short space, you know, all kinds of things. All kinds of things. And um I want to say the first thing I'm I'm going to say, the first thing I'm going to say is as Nerky just said, too much speculation. Mhm. We feed off of speculation. Mhm. And that ought not to be so. Um, we talk so much about the pope.

I I think it's to the point where many of us know more about the moves of pope of the pope than we do about the moves of Jesus. we know more about the Pope and we're focused more on the Pope than we are on Jesus. But we've talked about this before and you've you've mentioned it in presentations and sermons before. Um it's because if if if when people are learning about the prophecies and and they they take away from our evangelistic series, you know, they take away many things, but one thing that they take away is um you know, the position of who the Catholic Church is and the leader and that type of thing.

So they focus on on that. And so it's not um I mean it's just I I don't want to say it's like it's it's the way that I feel like we present and teach prophecy that causes it's not like we're teaching the truth but I think the emphasis is in the wrong place because it makes people focus just on that. I was just having a discussion a couple weeks ago about this with a young adult. I'm gonna I'm gonna show you something. Um, let's go. Let me see here. All right. Let's go to the screen. And, um, I want you to check this out.

So, uh, here are the four popes that lived during Ellen White's life. Right? So, you have Pope Gregory the 16th. Um he died in 1846. Um you have uh Pope Pas I 9th and he was from 1846 to to uh 1878. And then Leo I 13th, he was from 1878 to 1903. And then Pope Pius I 10th, he was from 1903 to 1914. Now I got a question for you. Test question. How many times do you think Ellen White mentioned these popes by name? What do you think? What do you think? Put some numbers in the chat for me and just just take a guess.

Just take a guess. I'm going to start with Pope Pas the 16th. Uh, I'm sorry, Gregory the 16th. If you do a search, so I I actually screenshot screen screenshotted the search. She mentioned Pope Gregory the 16th once. Once. And it's in one book, The Great Controversy. And it's not even in the body of the book, it's in the appendix of the book. Okay. What about um Pope Pas the 9th? That was more of you know after her prophetic role began. So you can look and see Pope Pas the 9th. You can see in the search engine she mentions him five times.

Five times. And again, all five times are I'm sorry, four times are in the book, The Great Controversy. And of those four times, all of them are again in the back of the book, The Appendings. You would almost think, "What was the matter with her?" Did she not know that she should be calling out these popes and talking about everything they're doing? So, I want you to see here. Let me let me go to the next one. Here is Pope Leo I 13th from 1878 to 1903. Again, a search of Pope Leo the 13th. I got the wrong slide up there, but I think she mentioned, let's see, is that it?

Yep, there it is. Four times. Four times she mentioned Leo the 13th. And the last one, this would be uh pious the 10th. That number is one time. One time. Now, I'm going to ask y'all a question. I want you to um I want you to put in the chat. I just want to see some of your responses so far. What do you think about what you just saw? Is anybody surprised? And maybe surprised in a good way or maybe surprised in a bad way. How many of you how many of you are like wait a minute like compare what what happens in you know on a lot of in a lot of ministries today, right?

How often have you heard the name Pope Francis did this, Pope Francis did that? I want you to note the difference, you guys. The prophet spent very little time talking about these individual popes. When she mentions them, it's they wrote this encyclical and said this about this particular doctrine, said this about that particular doctrine. But the issue was not the pope as an individual, right? We have never been caught up on the pope as an individual. It's about the position. The position, the system.

And I think what has happened today is that we have become so um caught up in which pope, which pope, which pope, what's the pope doing now that we're focusing more on him than we are of Jesus. Yes. Um if you look if you were to look at uh let's say the pioneers of the same time. So let's go back to the screen. And and so I did the same search for the pioneers. And what you'll see here is that for one of these popes, Pope Pius I 10th, the pioneer writings. So that's the periodicals, the articles, they mentioned Pope Pis the 10th 17 times.

17 times. In another one, Leo the 13th, he is mentioned 358 times. Now, you might think, "Oh, okay. There you go. 358 times, guys. Here's what I want you to see here." So, let's just go back. I'mma show you a slide here. Uh, okay. Here we go. So, um, the websites are are below, right? They're an adventist review. Uh by the 1880s, track societies across the world were distributing distributing close to five million pages of material a year a year through this correspondence method resulting in many converts as produced by the traditional evangelistic uh preaching series.

Uh by 1844 the Millerite the Millerites when the Millerites wrongly expected the second coming of Christ early believers had already distributed an astonishing 8 million pieces of literature. Let me ask you a question. If you were to take 358 mentions of a particular pope and compare that to the number of articles, written words, pages, do you understand how minuscule of a number that is? Yeah. You thought that 358. Well, see, there you go, pastor. No, no, no. It's not a lot. It's not a lot at all.

They were not in the habit of watching the present pope and trying to see everything that he was doing because it wasn't about the pos. It wasn't about the individual. It was about the position and it was about a much larger system. We understand that. But we seem to have lost that today because we know that if we put up a video about the pope, everybody's going to watch. Mhm. We know that if we talk about the pope, everybody's going to be like, "Oh man, you staying on top of things." But is that actually backfiring?

I suggest it is you guys. I suggest that we are becoming so our record is getting really bad and there is no need for that because we ought not to be guessing at anything. When you say our some people the people who who focus right on on the pope in this way I put emphasis there their record is bad. Yeah. So I'm saying our because I'm just putting us all in the lump. Okay. Right. Putting us all in there. Um let me go back to the screen and I want you to see this. Um here we go. So there are many in the church who take it for granted that they understand what they believe.

But until controversy arises, they do not know their own weakness. When separated from those of like faith and compelled to stand singly and alone to explain their belief, they will be surprised to see how confused are their ideas of what they had accepted as truth. Certain it is that there has been among us a departure from the living God and a turning to men putting human wisdom in the place of divine. Now notice what she says next. God will arouse his people if other means fail. Heresies will come in among them which will sift them separating the chaff from the wheat.

The Lord calls upon all who believe his word to awake out of sleep. Precious light has come appropriate for this time. It is Bible truth showing the perils that are right upon us. The light should lead us to a diligent study of the scriptures and a most critical examination of the positions we hold. I I think you guys I genuinely genuinely believe in my heart that we have allowed so much chaff cha chaff to come in to our teachings that it is becoming difficult to distinguish between what is actually wheat, what we actually believe as a church, right?

And what is chaff. what what has been assumed as Bible truth and actually is not and it's a very it's a very serious question. It's a very serious thing because how many of us strongly believe something that we have no evidence for in the scriptures? The first thing I want to I want to recap is that we need to be watching Jesus more than we're watching the Pope. Amen. We need to be watching Jesus more than we're watching the Pope. The second thing I want to I want to emphasize is what I believe is a growing ignorance or lack of understanding of the Bible amongst God's people.

Just because someone is saying something with conviction doesn't mean that it's true, right? Doesn't mean that it's accurate. Doesn't mean that it is biblical. Um I believe that we we are we are eating now what I'm calling prophecy stew. So what do y'all think I mean when I say prophecy stew? Well, with a stew you put a lot of different ingredients. just throw stuff in there. Yeah. And just make it all all prophecy. And you try to make it all taste good. And you you make it taste good. You try to make it taste good.

And guess what? It might taste good. It might taste good. But the question for you is, is it good? You know the saying, sometimes things that taste good are not good for you, right? Yes. The things that sometimes taste the best are often the things that have a lot of sugar in it, a lot of sweets. And what's happening is we're now I I everything becomes prophecy, that's prophecy, stew. And what you have happening is, and and trust me, you guys, I'm not calling out, you know, I think ministries need to be held accountable for putting stuff out there sweet and having the people eat it up and then when those things don't happen, yes, potluck, prophecy, potluck.

When things don't happen, they just go on, step away as if nothing was ever said. They're quiet for a while and then another one will No, we're just going to we're just going to move to a new Yeah. It's a short while. They're they're they're quiet on they don't ever go back and correct their mistake because to to say it was a mistake then or what will the people say? Mhm. The prophecy stew is getting really, really, really, really crazy. To the point where, you know, people are like, "Well, what if Pope Francis resurrects?"

Did somebody say that? If he resurrects, you're kidding, right? I'm saying like there are some people who thought Pope the Pope wasn't going to die. This was going to be it. So, what I'm saying is I see what you're saying. How Yeah. How far do we go? when we ought not to be guessing at anything. Itching ears, Kevin. Itching ears. Yeah. We want the spicy. You know why? And it's sad, y'all. Here's what's so sad. We don't think Jesus draws. And in our church, listen to me now. In our church, Jesus does not draw.

You want to test me on that? Okay. Clarify. Clarify. Hold on. Let me let let me not for everyone. I'm not talking about for everyone. That's what I was saying. In certain uh in certain circles spaces Jesus does not draw, right? And and you can tell simply by just go online, go on social media, look at what gets the most uh uh clicks, the most view. do something about Jesus and see how many Adventists are like, "Oh, man. I watched this powerful sermon on prayer." Oh, it was amazing. 100,000 views.

Why prayer is important. No, no, no, not not Adventist. That's that's precious truth. What we need is present Jesus doesn't draw. And that's a sad commentary. you guys. Yes. SDA dopamine. We need the next hit. We need the next prophetic hit. And so if it's not if it's not we we we got we have to find something that we can say see and this is a fulfillment of prophecy. And beloved when everything is a fulfillment of prophecy then nothing is a fulfillment of prophecy. We begin to lose our prophetic edge our prophetic importance.

It is better to be silent and speak when appropriate than to be always speaking and always this is prophecy, this is prophecy, this is prophecy because not we're just looking for stuff and you know climate change was definitely going to bring in the Sunday law. Remember there's Yeah. Yeah. And there's still time COP 26 and COP 27 and and all these different things. Everything becomes prophecy. What happened in in what hap everything becomes prophecy. Things that have little to no connection to prophecy become prophecy because we want it to be prophecy.

I've talked about this, I don't know here, but I've talked about it on church uh during a Sabbath school before that, you know, I I like to say that Adventists are probably the most anxious people. Um They're afraid. There's fear. All because, you know, God said remember and so we're just like, "Okay, we can't forget. We can't forget." And there's just so much anxiety. And he doesn't want us to have anxiety at all. No. Um, and not everybody does. But you know what? No. But that there's a lot of fear.

There's a lot of fear. And when we're motivated by fear because we're looking at the beasts and the dragon and and we're not and we're looking at the pope and we're not looking at Jesus. Right. And that's what I was going to say. When you're looking at Jesus, you don't God doesn't give us the spirit of fear. That's right. So when we're when we have all that fear, everything, you know, everything always has to be you're afraid. Like everything has to be coming around the corner. Oh, that's a you're watching out.

That is that is like you're always scared. So you're always on alert because you're anxious and you're afraid of fear. You know, you're afraid and that's a sad commentary. And we don't want to approach God's word with the spirit of fear. Mhm. But but but that's what happens. Yes. We have to look out at everything, you know, look for everything that's happening. The and the thing that we should be looking at prophetically speaking, it it kind of goes by the wayside now because now we're looking at, you know, this is prophecy and that is prophecy and it's it's prophetic stew.

It's prophetic stew. So, I'm going to give an example. I'm going to give a demonstration to you. And now you're going to be like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on, pastor." So, I asked a question. I asked a question because this is something that that I hear a lot. So, I was on Facebook the other day and I asked a question. I said, um, where is the United Nations in Bible prophecy? We're talking about prophecy stew, right? We're talking about just dumping stuff in the pot. Dumping stuff in the pot, ingredients in the pot, and then making it all part of the Adventist message, making it all a part of the three angels messages.

Everything is not the three angels messages. There are prophetic scenarios that don't belong to us. But when we approach prophecy in this prophecy stew type of way, we start putting anything in the pot. And again, everything anything becomes prophecy. And that's what we see happening in Adventism right now. And let me tell you, it might be it might be adrenaline for a while, right? But when that hit passes and you're like, I got to go on to the ne I got to go on to the next hit. And sometimes you don't want the hit to die.

So you got to keep that thing alive because you think this is prophecy. And now you are doing everything in your power to try to prove that something is prophecy. keeping it alive because it is that dopamine that SDA dopamine that if we don't have we're like well how am I gonna how am I going to stay excited about what Jesus doesn't doesn't fulfill that I love for many people it doesn't I love the analogy like Dr. White and I just did did two programs on mental health Mondays on um on addiction.

And that's the problem. Like we're supposed to get dopamine, but it's supposed to be balanced and not all the time back to back to back. That's how you become an addict. So like you're becoming prophecy addicts because it's like you're you're not supposed to you're not supposed to get it all the time. It's supposed to be balanced. You're supposed it's a whole thing. But and that's and that's not what's happening. And and look y'all, I'm a prophecy addict. I I make y'all hear me talk about prophecy and I'm always seeking to balance it with Jesus.

Now, if you disagree with that, that's maybe you're right. But what I'm telling you is my intention say you're an addict. I'm an addict. I'm an addict to Jesus. I'm an addict to prophecy. I love these things. You love and you love teaching it. Yes. You don't you don't love What you don't love is u I got to have prophecy no matter what. There's a difference, right? Yeah. You don't go to the conspiracy to make That's what I'm saying. You don't put 10 on two. I just learned that this week, Brother Terry, when he was saying 10 on 10 on two, you see what I'm saying?

Like, you don't try to You're not creating prophecy for the sake of I got to have a hit. Exactly. Because So, I'm making everything be prophecy now. And look what the Pope just did over there. That's prophetic. And look at what just happened here. That's prophetic. And look at what our government is doing. That's prophetic. There are prophetic things. But when we make everything prophecy when it's time to pay attention to something, we don't. And can Okay. Well, there's two things, but um and I'm coming to my question.

Okay. Go ahead. So, our basic prophecy, which I I I hated to just call it basic because it's not basic. But the prophecy that we know is sufficient is so rich, powerful, and so pro prophetic that we don't need to add anything. We don't need to add seasoning. Are you getting bored with it? If you're getting bored with it, I'm sorry because you don't need to add anything to it. And so then when you do what you were just when you're always doing what you were just sharing, um it's like when something really is happening that we should be paying attention to.

I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna go here with Project 2025. You were talking about it almost two years before many many people in the church were talking about it. a lot and many people didn't start talking about till after it was really too and are still hesitant to talk about it. Right? So what I'm saying is like people weren't paying attention to that. You see how like the enemy was like they were paying attention to to the climate change and to whatever. But that that just kind of slipped up and they just were not a lot of people were not paying attention or don't even worry about it.

It's that I heard from you. I heard that from from so I'm just saying like that's what happens when you're always um you know talking about things that are not actually prophetical and then when something actually and I'm not saying like project 2025 is it's something to that we should have been paying attention to that we should have been watching because it actually um was something that could take our religious liberties away. Yep. Yep. So, um, I want you all to I'm gonna ask you a question. And here's a question that I asked on my on my after I was thinking these things.

I was like, I'm gonna ask a question on Facebook and I'm going to see what kind of response I get. So, the question was, hey guys, where is where do we get that the United Nations is a part of the three angels messages? That the United Nations being evil, being bad, being a a a being a part of the forces that are going to bring about Sunday law. Where do we get that in the Bible? And so my question was, I just want Bible, right? I just want Bible. And um let me do something here. I'm going to I'm going to skip a couple slides.

I'm gonna I'm just going to share with you some of the responses. Um hold on. Don't go to the screen yet. Okay. Um, so here, let's let's uh here we go. Okay. So, I've blotted out all the names. Um, and you know what? I'm not even going to do that. Uh, don't don't show my slides because people might look at the slides and then go back to my slide and see the name of the person that that said whatever. But I'm just going to kind of read excerpts from some slides. Okay. Um, that way I can protect everybody's identity and I'm not trying to call anybody out.

Okay. Um so um one person believes that you know that the UN is in Revelation chapter 18 that it's talking about the you know the the uh kings of the earth that's what represents the UN. Now by the way remember my question was like we know that the papacy is in the Bible. We know that America is in the Bible. What about the UN? Now, I got to tell you this. The response to this question was almost like now we know Pastor M is going off his rocker because how are you asking a question? Where is the United Nations in the Bible?

Everybody we all know what do you know how I was lost on that one. How much I know. So, the interesting thing was that of all the responses I was getting, it was almost like, "Well, don't you know it's in the Bible?" I had one person um say say to me, "This is lack of wisdom, dear Ivor." And then they go on to explain why the UN you know the UN is a is a is a branch of the of the papacy and um you know other verses and then you know so much of my studying has like made me lose my mind. So that was one response, you know, a couple other responses like this, like what are you serious?

Are you actually asking? But no one was providing an actual study of of a Bible verse that said here, here we get the papacy this way. We get apostate Protestantism this way, right? And here's where we see the United Nations as an organization, the organization of the United Nations. And so it it's this taking for granted that yeah, everybody knows the United Nations is evil. And if it's evil, it's a part of Bible prophecy. I mean, we can't tell you where exactly in the Bible it is, but we know it's there.

I mean, it's obvious. Look at all the books that have been written. A and so it re it began to reveal the very thing that I'm that I'm saying here is that many of us drop stuff into the into the prophecy stew. M and when you stew something, you know, like the flavor begins to share. So you don't necessarily know when you're eating, you know, one thing versus another because the flavors just blend. That's what a stew is. If we're dropping stuff in the three angels pot that doesn't belong in the three angels pot and claiming that it's that that it's a three it's part of the three angels messages, you guys, we are in danger.

And I I'm saying that I'm trying to, you know, not get wor. I'm trying to say it in as calm a way as I can. But you don't say you're in danger very calmly. People don't say when somebody's in danger, you you're not calm. You're not supposed to be calm. You're not supposed to be calm. Give an alarm. So, Revelation 17 is given, oh, the 10 kings, that's the United Nations. Um, no one mentioned a particular chapter, which they should have, but they're like, "Well, there's something that's stopping them from saying, well, it's that chapter."

But I'm going to show you something, okay? How many of you have ever seen Get ready. Get ready for this, y'all. When I talk about step away from Prophecy Stew and just eat the undiluted word of God, um, let me show you something. So in Daniel chapter 2 we know that we have you know the image Babylon and then meersia and then Greece and then Rome and then the 10 toes uh symbolize uh the dividing of Rome and then the papacy. So our view is what we call historicism. Right? There's an unconnected line of prophecy that goes from Babylon all the way to the rise of the papacy.

But our evangelical friends do not share that view. What you're looking at on the screen right now might confuse you. But let me show you what it is. So in this version of Daniel chapter 2, you have Babylon, right? Meo Persia, Greece, then Rome, and then I want you to note what happens after the fall of Rome in 476 AD. It's almost like a gap is introduced. Did y'all hear what I just said? A gap is introduced. There is a gap between Rome and the 10 toes of ir of iron and clay. Mhm. The reason that that gap is there is that they they skip past the breaking down of the ancient Roman Empire.

They skip past the little horn. And what they do instead is they say that these 10 toes are yet future. Therefore, this will be a revived Roman Empire. That is what we call futurism. Right? That is what we call dispensationalism. So, it's the gap theory. So, you know, for those of you that are familiar with the the We as Adventists don't believe that. No, we don't. I know. But wait a minute. How did that get in the pot, though? Right. Exactly. How did that get in the pot? That shouldn't have been put put in the pot.

Now, we don't say a revived Roman Empire, right? But here's what we are saying because it's almost the same thing. Let me show you. Let me show you. Let's go back. Here's another image. Same thing different different image but I want you to note again here you have Egypt then Assyria and those are not part of the image according to this this picture but then you have Babylon Persia Greece Rome and then for the toes of iron and clay you have Britain and the USA and then note what you have next you have the League of Nations which was what was existing and then you know to try to stop a world war from happening.

World War I happened and after that it dissolved and after that became the United Nations. This image is teaching that the toes of iron and clay are the United Nations. Again, dispensationalism, futurism. This is we skip past the fall of Rome or the the the disintegration of Rome into the barbarian tribes. We skip past the papacy and we go to something in the future, the United Nations. Now, I'm going to I'm I want to take a guess. I want you to take a guess. Who is this second chart from? Anyone know what denomination holds or is the first because this is a very old chart.

Mhm. What denomination is it that teaches that the 10 toes are the United Nations and the League of Nations and also Britain and USA? What denomination? Yep. While you're guessing, let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen. I'm going to show you another chart yet again. Here's another one. Babylon, Meopersa, Greece, Rome, and again look at this. The European Union. The European Union. The European Union is the 10 toes. So, I'm going to show you where this comes from. Yes, you have it right there.

Let's see. Wow. This is from a website called Got Questions. And you guys may know that website. It's not an Adventist website, but it's a very well-known website. A lot of people go to it, you know, when they have questions. And so, here's one of the questions they ask. Uh, the question was about the 10 the 10 the 10 toes. Here's what they say. A one world or global government is predicted in Daniel and Revelation. It will come after the rise of a confederation of 10 nations or regions. Please note this y'all.

It will it will come after the rise of a confederation of 10 nations or regions. What is quoted? Revelation 13:1, Daniel 7:16-24, and Daniel 2:41-42. Listen to what it goes on to say. One member of the confederate of the confederation will displace three of the other members, subdue the others, and rule over all led by the satanic empowered antichrist. It is this confederation of 10 nations that is most often connected with the United Nations. Let me read one more. Same website. Another prophecy that some people connect with the United Nations is found in Revelation 17:18.

There Babylon the Great or the of Babylon is condemned. The first mention of Babel is in Genesis 11, the story of the Tower of Babel. The building of the tower was mankind's first attempt at world government in defiance of God. Babylon the Great in the end times is a similar cong conglomeration of nations attempting to unite against God. Now beloved, we know that that's wrong. We know that Babylon is not a conglomeration of nations. It's a conglomeration of churches. But they believe it's a conglomeration of nations attempting to unite against God.

This fact, the fact that this evil world system is called a mystery is called a mystery in Revelation 17:15 indicates that we do not yet know all the details. So this is from the same question. They believe according to Daniel 2 that the little horn I'm sorry not the little horn that uh the 10 kingdoms is the United Nations. Now evangelicals didn't start this. Let me really show you where this comes from. Let's go back to the screen. And one of you got this right. A lot. No, several people. Okay.

Several of you got this right. jw.org or Jehovah's Witnesses mercy. The scarlet colored beast described in Revelation chapter 17 is a symbol of the organization whose purpose is to unite and represent the nations of the world. It first existed as a League of Nations and is now the United Nations, a political entity. Let me ask you a question, guys. When did we when did we adopt Jehovah's Witness teaching on prophecy? When did that happen? Anyone? Somebody tell me. Yeah. How did we adopt their view of the United Nations?

Because I'll tell you in my in my post I was getting Revelation chapter 17. Mercy. Really? Revelation time. Pastor, I see you. Oh, good to see you, sir. Pastor Jose, good to see you, Pastor Jose. You You've thrown me off. Our dear friend. Now, now, now I can't think. I can think. It's good to see you, man. Okay. So, so when did this get into the pot? Because most people think this was this is Adventist. They're like, "Don't you know, pastor?" Listen, y'all. I'm going to show you. I'm going to show you.

Let's see if I got this here. Okay, let's go to the screen. Let's go to the screen and I'm going to play a video for you. It's a short video, but I need you to listen carefully. Go ahead. You're listening to the critical thought, where we challenge our listeners to use critical thinking when examining the teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses. Hi, this is Daniel. This is JT. And the purpose of this video is to talk to you about the Jehovah's Witnesses and the United Nations things you should know. Yeah, JT.

So, let's talk. All right. So, what should our people know about the Jehovah's Witnesses and the United Nations? What what did for some This is going to sound obscure. What do the United Nations and the Jehovah's Witnesses have to do with one another? Yeah. Uh well, you kind of like roll you got to roll the clock back a little bit. uh when the what was known as the League of Nations after World War I, they set government set up the League of Nations. Uh Jehovah's Witnesses jumped on it as soon as they set up and and their basic position was very simple that the League of Nation was a counterfeit substitute kingdom for God's kingdom.

Okay, that was their that was the position they took. As a result, any religion, any religious denomination that had any working relationship, friendly relationship, whatever relationship with the with the League of Nations, they was sinning against God. That was their basic position. Of course, we know the years the League of Nation collapsed and then they set up what was called what we have today, the United Nations. Once again, Jehovah's Witnesses back in the 40s, they jumped on it again. any religion that has any connection, relationship, working relationship with the United Nations, they sinning against God.

In fact, they refer to it as going down to Egypt. You're going to get help from Egypt instead of relying on God. So, that was their position. It was very clear. Magazines after magazines, talks after talk, every Jehovah's Witness knew this until an article came out in a mag Did you all hear that just now? Put a one in the chat if you now understand that Jehovah's Witnesses were the very first ones to prophetically identify the United Nations as a relig as a uh fulfillment of Bible prophecy. Did they package it different?

Like I'm so surprised that that is where it came from and that like and I'm going to tell you how not even I mean yes that we we would do that but even evangelicals would do that. They're not they're not repeating anything Jehovah Witness say. Yeah. Nothing. Right. They don't even know that that it comes from Jehovah's Witnesses. Wow. But I'm going to show you something. We're going to go to our next slide. Let's see here. All right. We're not find I'm surprised at at Advent Adventist who are saying that and I'm surprised at evangelical I'm surprised anybody is saying what Jehovah Jehovah witnesses are saying because number one they think they're a cult which we're not which is an issue.

Yeah. Yeah. But um all right let me I don't know if uh my team could get in and get this slide. For some reason it's it's not moving. Um and I want to go to the next slide. of if you can get in and get that change. But why while they working on that? So what we see here is that this is not of Adventist origin. No. How did it get in the pot? So let's go back. Okay, here we go. Um, check this out, you guys. Let's go to the next slide. M so in the 1970s um I'm sorry really in the 1950s and the 1960s some evangelicals or Christians began writing that the formation of the United Nations was a global plot to basically overthrow America so that you know the world was into globalism And ultimately it this was going to be an attack on America which is for nationalism.

America is the greatest nation on the planet. And the other nations we are the only thing stopping this Satan from taking over the whole globe. And so the United Nations became the prophetic symbol became the prophetic symbol to represent all that is against American Christianity. Now go to the screen. Watch this. How many of you have ever heard of a man by the name of Tim Lehei? Yes. Yes. Tim Lehei. the left behind guy, right? The left behind guy. Um before you go on, can I just say one thing because um I don't know all this is doing for me is like if going back to our series back to the basics.

Yep. Like if you understood that that that the UN is not the whirlwind. We take we we we take so much for granted. Yeah. The UN is not the UN is not what's going to convince everybody. That's what I'm saying. So why we don't have to focus on that. My mind is very basic. It's not like as deep as yours, but to me that is like so basic. Like if you can just apply that that simple understanding, you should not be getting confused with this. Yeah. Like the UN. And the thing is even in prophecy, we know that even if there was an entity that was going to try to destroy Yes.

Christianity, it's not gonna it's not going to do it. Yeah. Because the evangelical or you know the religious right connected to the Catholic Church. Yeah. And the whirlwind is what's going to And really the whirlwind really. True. So So here's the thing. So Christianity is not going to be taken over. Yeah. Or get it's not going to get it's not that's not the prophecy. Christianity is not it's not going to go away. Yeah. But Christians believe that. And so their enemy, they're all they're afraid.

Yeah. Their enemy is secularism and globalism. Yes. And that the UN, we got to get out of the UN. We got to separate. That's evangelical thinking. How did that get in the pot? How did Go back. Hold on. Watch this. Go back and look. We're going to do that. Actually, I need to tell you what I Let just Hold on. Let me show you something else. Let me show you something else. Um, let's go back to the screen and I want you to watch this next video. All right, y'all ready? Um, I'm going to make sure that you guys can hear this.

I want to try to hear it myself. So, let's go ahead and play the video. While some may turn to the books because of their interest in Christianity, most will get more than just a spiritual boost. The stories also carry a distinctly political message. That serpent has stood between us and paradise ever since. In the books and the film, the modern-day Antichrist is the head of the United Nations. He gets to that position with the help of shadowy international financiers. Nikolai, you know that's preposterous.

Do not lie to me. The casting of the Antichrist as the head of the UN reflects Leah's own personal suspicions. Dear, do you know who you're dealing with? Do you? Why did you choose the United Nations to be the body that the Antichrist essentially uses to take over with? Well, he's going to establish a one world government. That's one reason Christians are suspicious of globalism. They see it as maybe a precursor of Antichrist. And I just use the United Nations because it's a entity today that people can understand.

It may not be the United Nations. It may be something else. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised in today's geopolitical situation where the United Nations and the European common market uh will gradually grow together and join other countries of the world uh against the United States, the superpower and uh gradually they will move their their center of government to Iraq. An interesting thing in the Bible is this is from your book or this is what you're saying will happen. Well, this what I'm saying will probably happen that the capital of uh the antichrist kingdom will be in Babylon.

All right. What will probably happen? What will probably okay happen? Okay. How did So this began with Jehovah's Witnesses number one and and then it moved into evangelicalism mercy. And now so what happened is like in the 60s the 70s and the 80s all of these conspiracy books please don't y'all don't get mad at me now. I'm just I'm just telling you historically what has happened. I should have brought these books with me because you know what? When I came into Adventism, I don't know how I got a hold of these books, but I got a hold of these books.

How many of y'all remember those books from the 90s? Well, I was reading them in the 90s. So, the New World Order 666, um, these white books, they were thick books. So, they were all white and then they would have the green. Yeah. The allseeing eye, the Illuminati, the allseeing eye. I still got them. Yep. I thought I I'd swear I've seen them. And I would read these books and I'd be like yo that that you know me and my friends yo and we didn't re actually when I read these books I thought the guys writing the books were advent I don't know why I thought that but I was just like man they they I mean they maybe not talking about the sab because they're just trying to you know but that's when you were first when you were no that's when you were in the music you guys used to We were still in the music.

Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. And actually those books were some of the books that we were reading that like when we wrote the song the mark of the beast. I was going to say like it was still we had just been learning about the Sabbath. We were reading these books, right? Whole series of them. Yes. Put a one in the chat if y'all remember them. 666 was the name of one book and the books just look so scary. Right. It kind of reminded me of Jan Marcus's book National Sunday Law. So it was like Jan Marcus's book National Sunday Law and then these other books six which to me was just like man this just takes it all the way deeper.

I didn't know they were not Adventist books. So, I'm just like, "Yeah, the builder the Bilderbergs and the, you know, all these things just and it all just be the League of Nations and the United Nations and yo, the 666 building. It was 666 um was it on 6th Avenue? I can't." Anyway, we got caught up in all of that, you guys. And these were the books that were pushing this Watch out for the United Nations globalism. They're out to destroy America and American Christianity. And beloved, it took me some time as I studied deeper and deeper into our prophecy.

I was like, "Yeah, like no, yeah, I'm not going to be talking about this stuff. This is the actual prophecy." And yes, there might be, you know, there might be satanic agencies out there and people that are worshiping Satan and blah blah blah, but they have no idea that whatever they're planning is not going to come to pass because God has shown us what is really going to happen in this world. It's not going to be a United Nations takeover of the planet. It's going to be a Christian takeover of the planet.

And it's not going to be through some organization that's going to help. It is going to be Satan himself leading this thing and a world organization that's going to come and give America power. That's not how the prophecy reads. No, that's not how it reads. So, we need to get out of this slide. What do you mean? Go ahead. If we can get out of this slide, I want to go to the next slide. Yeah. Go ahead. Okay. So, going back to what I first stated about the days or the glaze. Could you hold your thought for a second?

If I hold it, I'm going to forget because don't forget. Just don't forget it. Okay. Here's what I want to say. The United Nations may have bad stuff going on in it, just like Jamaica may have bad stuff going on in Jamaica. There's bad stuff everywhere. Bad stuff happening doesn't make it a Thank you, Ju Julysa. Just hold on. Let me let me just shed a tear with you for a moment, Julysa. Like, praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Um, you don't know how many people out there in Adventism are like you who may not be willing to even hear what I'm saying right now.

They're just like, "Nah, you're an apostasy." In fact, somebody might make a video about this. Don't be surprised if you see Pastor Meyer says, "Don't be surprised because anyway, Jalissa, praise the Lord, sis. Praise the Lord." Amen. We're not studying deep enough. We're we're we're content with surface seasoned stew. And I'm telling you, the more I see Adventists flocking to stew, prophetic stew, it it just saddens me because I'm just like, we're supposed to be people of the book. How are you How are you saying to me I am I am ignorant that I cannot see the United Nations in prophecy and yet not be able to show me You could show me the papacy in prophecy.

You could show me apostate problem. How can you not show me? You can show America and Yeah. How can you not show me United Nations, but just say, "Well, it's just there because we've always said that." No, we haven't always said that. No, we haven't. And just the foundation. See, because I mean, I never hear a lot of these things because I just don't go and pay attention. I mean, you're always gathering what people other people are saying about things. But um what I was going to say is when the foundation is understood the prophecy correctly.

So you're not in a days and you're not trying to add put 10 on two or what however that saying goes. It's like like I was just trying to say um it's not a world organization or or the world doesn't come together and then come comes into America and makes us join them or or whatever. Do you see what I'm saying? The prophecy is is that the power is here and we clasp hands with the papal system and it's going to go around the world and we're going to get to that. I'm going to show you why the United N but the whirlwind is the real kicker.

There is going to be a United Nations, but it's not this United Nations, you guys. Right. Yeah. The world, the world is going to I almost like think the name of the United Nations like that's it. That's it. The organization world is going to unite. No, I mean it's not. It's not. And there will be a United Nations. Yes. But it's not this. No. And I guess I get so whatever about this is because I four years ago you guys saw our live about back to the basics. You saw my the light bulbs go off in my head like in real time like wow I'm really really really really getting this.

I can't let that go because it just it that basic foundational understanding helps me to understand it gives me the proper lens to see the rest of the prophecies and not go off on some crazy tangent like it's just that doesn't fit because we're not that doesn't fit we're not filtering the the the UN as an evil source is literally evangelical prophecy which says they are gathering the whole world through this secular global elite satanic spiritualism. And so what we do is and you there are people that actually said to me, "Oh well the papacy is is uh the first beast.

Uh the um apostate Protestantism is the second beast and then spiritualism is the United Nations." Wow. So the head of spiritualism is the United Nations. Well, they have a room there where they worship Satan in. Hold on guys, the United Nations is not a religious organization. And now I know what some of you are saying, pastor, you got to read between the lines. And let me say this, that is the danger I think that we face as a people is we keep reading between the lines while ignoring the actual lines.

When you read in between the lines, you're able to make up your own stuff. And even though the lines don't say it, like you can't go to the United Nations and see where they say we are an organ organization that is trying to take over the world to defeat America. No, it doesn't say. They're not going to say that, pastor. But you got to read between the lines. No, let's stop reading between the lines and let's start reading the lines. So that's why they hate the United Nations because they think they're going to well so there's two different I think there's two different camps.

There's the they're going to try they're trying to take away Christianity camp, right? And then they're trying to destroy America. It's the same thing. Okay. America is Christianity. Okay. The UN is global spiritual elites, secular Marxist, commun. But again, that doesn't fit. That's evangel that is evangelical's version of prophecy and it doesn't fit. So how can Adventists even adopt that even a little bit because we all know America is not going down like that. When you borrow food from other people mercy and put it in your stew, you're going to end up with something that is not our message at all.

At all. So all these conspiracy books came out about the UN and then we start Adventists were reading those books and the more we read those books the more we were like yeah you there's stuff you don't I mean yeah you know Babylon the prayers of grace papy yeah but now we're trying to we're taking all this stuff and trying to make it a part of our part of our prophecy here let's go back to the screen I'm going to show you something in light of possible this is from a book called the glo um shadow government, how the secret global elite is using surveillance against you.

This is evangelical writing. Here's what he says. In light of possible unrestricted nuclear war between the Soviet Union and the United States and later China, they formulated a new international body that came to be known as the United Nations. What was announced publicly is that the UN was a was the global elitist next step in launching in embriionic form the coming world government. Members of the Council on Foreign Relations created after World War I and still a powerful influence toward government global government virtually wrote the UN charter.

While the goal of world peace was laudable, the unfortunate result was that the foundation for a global government was laid without the knowledge or approval from the citizens of the western nations that were affected. This is a war against the west. This is a war against western ideals against Christianity. That is an evangelical talking point that has now been mixed into the stew of Adventism. M that is not our message. But we we started reading them. We started reading those books. We started talking about that.

We started mixing it into our message. Now let me show you guys. Ready y'all? I hope y'all are sitting down. Let me show you guys um if you search again in the writings of the pioneers and look up League of Nations because the United Nations wasn't started when our pioneers were still alive. Mhm. But but while some of them were still living, there was a League of Nations. But if you look at this, League of Nations is mentioned once in the Ellen White search once. If you now go to the United Nations, get ready for this, you guys.

Here we go. Here is how the Adventist Church responded to the United Nations um when they were formed. The United Nations Organization, by the way, you'll see all my sources at the bottom right here. The United Nations Organization may and we fervently hope will tide over the present at some and subsequent crises. It may and we hope will long keep back war from among the nations that the good news of the gospel may go to every nation and kindred and tongue and people. But sooner or later it will be overwhelmed by the demonic forces which are d which are driving a doomed world to destruction and will be impotent meaning powerless to avert the final crisis of history.

Let's come back for a moment when the United Nations is being formed. This is early on. The Adventist church's response was, "Listen, the United Nations, we hope it's going to do good things, but eventually it's going to become powerless because this world is coming to an end." The United Nations was formed to avert war, not to o. So Babylon was overcome by Meo Persia. Meoersia was overcome by Greece. Greece was overcome by Rome. Rome fell into these barbarian tribes. The formation of the United Nations does not follow the trend of all the other nations that came before prophetically, right?

Their goal was world dominion through war. The United Nations, whether it is whether it is good or bad, I'm not talking about is it good or bad. I'm simply saying is it prophetic? You may say all day long, oh there's a lot of satanic stuff that happens there. There may be a lot of satanic stuff. There's a lot of satanic stuff that happens in every nation. Yes. It doesn't make it a part of the elements of prophecy. In the three angels messages, so look at what our church is saying. They're like, we think it eventually is going to become powerless to stop what's coming.

Let's go back to the screen. I want you to note this. This is July 26, 1995. Fear and high hope. You see the title is the United Nations the Golden Gate to a better world. And here we have, get ready for this you guys, Arthur Maxwell. Now, Arthur Maxwell bedtime stories, right? Right. Right. Uh, please. I think some of y'all are gonna going to go back into y'all are going to be like, I read bedtime stories to my children. We did. I am throwing out bedtime stories. My kids will never because Arthur Maxwell was a Jesuit.

Arthur Maxwell didn't see anything wrong with the United Nations. Let's read what Arthur Maxwell says. He says, "I have um I have just spent the best part of the week at the United Nations um 10th anniversary celebration in San Francisco. I happened uh I listened to Eisenhower uh Molotov and they list all these names and a host of other speakers and came away with some very definite impressions." And he goes on, I'm not I'm not going to take time to read everything he says. Here's one. Here is what he concludes.

Not for one moment would I question the motives of the architects and promoters of this great organization. Hold on. Wait a minute. Did author Maxwell just call the United Nations a great organization? What in the world? Mhm. He goes on to say, "Undoubtedly, they have made a notable contribution to human welfare and to the improvement of relationships between the nations, but I'm concerned that their activities are outside of and apart from the Christian program as set forth in the Holy Scriptures.

They are depending for success upon diplomacy, discussion, conferences, and treaties to accomplish their desired end. But in all their propaganda, so far as I've seen, there is no mention of any need of conversion through the grace of Christ, which is absolutely basic to the Christian concept of a warless world. Okay, you guys, Arthur Maxwell is not deluded. He says, "Hey, the United Nations is a great organization. Their goal is is is is honorable. They want world peace. They don't want any more fightings.

They don't want any more Babylon, meet me, Persia, Greece, Rome. They don't want any more of this war. So, they are existing. Their stated purpose of existing is not to take over the world." But conspiracy theorists, I could hear them right now, would say, "That's just the cover. Yeah. What they're really doing behind the lines. And you know what, guys? It's the reading between the lines. Listen y'all, when we're teaching about the papacy, we don't have to read between the lines. They come out and say themselves.

Yeah. When we're talking about pro apostate Protestantism, we don't need to read between the lines. Listen to me, y'all. It is always unsafe to put words into somebody's mouth that they never said. That's what you call reading between the lines. I have had people make whole videos about me, putting words in my mouth that I never said. And now people going around saying, "Pastor said this." Ask me, "Go find a clip where I said that." Well, you didn't say it. But if you read between the lines and that is what the devil does.

He wants us to read. God doesn't tell us to read between the lines, right? God t he lays it out for us. He lays it out for us in the lines. So when we're of this at Well, United N Yeah, they say this, but you got to read. Show me where the or the the the United Nations says. So officially, guys, we are a satanic organization that plans to take over Christianity in America. And guess what? Even if they did say that, we know that that's not going to happen. That's not prophecy. That's speculation.

Y'all don't understand what the Bible says. The Bible says that things are going to go down this way. So, let me keep going. Let's go back to the slides. And I'm going to just skim through these quickly, you guys. I'm I will make my slides available as I usually do. Yes. But I'm just showing you here's signs of the time or the Bible in our times 1960. The United Nations is undoubtedly one of the forces by means of which the winds of strife have been restrained on the earth. Somebody's about to pass out right now.

I know this is Adventist literature, you guys. There is the link. And then they go on to say, "But we know it's not gonna last. We know it's not going to last." Okay. Um here one. Um this is Arthur Maxwell actually. May 25th, 1953. Not for a moment would we question the goodness, the virtue, the nobility of the men and women who dreamed this lovely dream. Nor would we think of scorning the labor of their devoted hands. Yet we would be recreant to our trust if we did not declare that this too shall pass.

Like every effort man has made to save himself in years gone by. So this latest of his magnifi of his of his magnificent illusions will dissolve into a sad and poignant memory. And he's talking about you see right up at the top the United Nations. Mhm. You know they would be stoned today for saying that. Or see they have this is evidence that they have sold out to the UN. Here is an entire magazine. This is Liberty magazine. an entire the entire this entire uh um publication this particular publication the entire thing was do was dedicated to what the United Nations was doing there you see the link you can go and check it out for yourself all right so these are the responses I was talking about and I'm not going to I'm not going to show these responses you could you know oh wow it froze okay they're they're they're ivory or not even pastor anymore.

It's just Ivor. This is a lack of wisdom on your part, my friend. That's what they're saying to me. Okay. Um let's go back. Let's go back. So here you see one that says and some of these are, you know, some of these are are well-meaning, right? So one says uh to claim it is not there when referring to the UN is to be willfully blind. The UN is the only global civil structure capable of enforcing international religious mandates. Wow. It's not the religious part. It's the state power necessary to form the image of the beast.

So, you see, right, there's all of these reason. Okay. And how you can't see it, you know, um here's another one that says um spiritualism, new age mysticism, occult, charisma of spiritual manifestations, secular government. All of these are part of the dragon element. So, there's the beast, the false prophet, and the dragon. Pastor, that's spiritualism. You got to see the UN note. Now, no verses, just commentary. Someone said this, "EU seems to be where we need to look. Here is the artwork outside the EU, and there's a woman riding a beast."

And that is supposed to be the evidence. Now, remember y'all, when we claim to be people of the book, what we're saying is whatever we teach prophetically, we can back up from the Bible. Right? So, that's all I'm asking. I don't want the seasonings. Right? The seasonings is look at the picture. I don't want the seasonings. I want the foundation. I want the meat. Then we can add If you're not seasoning the food, then what are you adding seasoning to? Right. Show me the text is what I'm is what I'm asking.

Um, go ahead. I I just can't like I just can't stop. I just don't Hold on. I'm gonna ask you to hold your thought again. Let me show this slide. I just want everyone to know. I like what this person said. I I want you guys to take note how many times I have cut her off. Thank you. And I'm I don't I'm not mad about it either, but I'm just saying because I usually get blamed for doing that to him. So, I'm just I want y'all to pay attention to that. But go ahead. So, listen to what this person says.

Sometimes we get caught up with so many current events and we forget that what the Bible actually says. We SDAs are all over the place when it comes to prophecy and current events. I believe that's exactly what the devil wants. Keep more focus on the Bible and spirit of prophecy and you will actually see what is relevant and what is irrelevant in current events. That's I like that. Of course. Yeah. Of course. This is another person, not the same one. Someone else said the 10 horns of Revelations 17 that is the UN organization.

And again, what we have seen is that that came from Jehovah's Witnesses. That's what they teach. We don't teach what they teach. No, we do not. No, we do not. Go ahead. I cut you off. Go ahead. It's okay. It's okay. Um, but I I just, you know, just again having the foundation and understanding it. It doesn't allow me to even enter into this space with this uh because okay there's there might the United Nations is a entity. It's a it's a movement, but there's nothing that they can do and it may be a movement of bad people in it, but there's nothing they can do to bring this whole world together.

And as we learned in back to the basics, I always say we need to do a do a new series on it, but bec you know there there's nothing there's nothing they can do that can bring the whole world together except except the whirlwind. And let's go and let's go to the screen because that's the very text I have up now. The world. Wow. And I didn't even know you're You set that up nicely. I really didn't know. Listen. Listen to what the Bible says in Daniel 11:40. At the time of the end shall the king of the north push at him, and the king of the south or king of the south push at him.

And the king of the north shall come against him like a whirlwind, like with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships, and he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and pass over. Note verse 41. He shall enter also into the glorious land and many countries shall be what? Overthrown. Yes. Overthrown. Let let me let me let's come back for a moment. So we know if you've if you watch the back to basics series, we know that this verse ties in with with another verse we'll look at later, Isaiah 65, which talks about Jesus coming again like a whirlwind with fire.

Right? We understand that Daniel 11:40 is the verse that is telling us about Satan counterfeiting the coming of Jesus, but note what it says about the countries. But don't leave off that piece, but bringing dead loved ones. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. To me, that's the biggest piece. Like, yes. Satan um impersonating Christ. Yes. Of course, that's huge. But resurrecting the dead, the dead loved ones, that's the in mass in mass. That's what Satan need. He needs that peace. Y You know what I'm saying? Because he needs that to to pull on our emotions to Yeah.

to override Yeah. our cognitive thinking. It's not He needed that. He needs that. Watch this. It's not the government that demands demands this mark of the beast. It's the people. Yeah. It's not the United Nations, you guys. Right. It's the people. The people are convinced. When the text says that many countries shall be overthrown, what that's literally saying is that the way our world is now, it is going to be different. Every nation is going to be over the United Nations is going to be overthrown.

America is going to be overthrown. Let me show you. Let me show you what what Ellen White says here. When Protestantism shall stretch forth her hand across the Gulf to grasp the hands grasp hands with the Roman power. When she shall reach over the abyss to clasp hands with spiritualism with the UN. When when they shall reach over the abyss to clasp hands with the UN. You guys U the UN is not the spiritualism she's talking about. The spiritualism that she's talking about is the appearing of Satan as Jesus.

and dead and dead loved ones. When under this influence, this three-fold union, our country shall do what? Repudiate every principle of his constitution as a Protestant and republic government. Meaning the way America is now, it ceases to be. The country will be overthrown. Randcraft has a good question because you had mentioned it and you never rewrote the king of the north. He's No, I have not rewritten the king of the north yet. He mentioned it after. Yes, that's something. Then we may know that the time has come for the marvelous working of Satan and that the end isn't near.

You guys stop guessing. Stop climate change. Oh, this here. Oh, this here. Oh, that there. Oh, the vaccines. Oh, co. Stop. Let's stop throwing everything in the pot as part of prophecy. We don't need to do that. Like has no power in the world together. We don't need to do that, you guys. Because forgive me if I'm sounding passionate right now and y'all are like, "Oh, why are like I'm sorry if this is offensive to you, but I'm not trying to be offensive you guys. I'm trying to say you guys, we we have to open our eyes.

It is getting to the point where the deception may be so deep that you will not be able to break out of it. Mhm. Okay. So, Isaiah 66:15, please note the text. Isaiah 66:15. This is where Satan appears like Jesus. Or this is the this is how we get this appearing of Satan like Jesus. Watch. For behold, the Lord will come with fire with his chariots like a whirlwind to render his anger with fury and his rebuke with flames of fire. This is exactly what we just read back in Daniel 11. He will come with a whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen.

How does Jesus come? He will come uh with fire and his chariots like a whirlwind. For by fire and by his sword will the Lord plead with all flesh. Verse 17, they that sanctify themselves. Verse 18, for I know their works. Verse 19, I will set up an end sign. Verse 20, they shall bring then and they shall bring all your brethren for an offering unto the Lord. Verse 21, I will take of them priests and Levites. Verse 22, for as a new heavens and a new earth remain. Verse 23, it shall come to pass that from one new moon to another and from one Sabbath to another.

Here, beloved, is the text that is showing that when Satan impersonates Christ, the world will think this is the millennium. And what does Jesus do in the millennium? Oh, he's going to make everyone come worship him from Sabbath to Sabbath. Watch this, you guys. Let me go back to screen. Notice what Ellen White says here. They declared that they had the truth, that miracles were among them, that angels from heaven talked with them and walked with them, that great power and signs and wonders were performed among them, and that this was the temporal millennium which they had been expecting so long.

The whole world was, what's that word there, Tante? Converted. The whole world was, what's the word? Converted. The whole world was one more time. What's the word? Converted. Was the whole world secular? Was the whole world a global elitist, Marxist, communist, Muslim? No. The whole world was converted. What are they saying? This is a temporal millennium. When does a temporal millennium begin in their eyes? When Jesus comes again and angels walk among them and miracles are being worked among them.

This is the obvious sign that Jesus is here. It is not the UN that the devil's going to use to make everybody worship the be. It is Satan himself appearing as Jesus. The whole world is converted. No more Muslims, no more Buddhists, no more secularists, no more Marxists, no more communists, no more atheists, no more agnostics. Everybody is converted except the people who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus. That is when the nations unite. Yes. And Satan doesn't have that power to do that.

Like think about it. If he had the power to do that, he would do it now. The re again I'm going to say this again. The reason why he has to go the spiritualism route and bring back dead loved ones, it's the only way to con to convince people, convince the world. We're too much at war with each other. Exactly. Muslims are not going to listen to the UN say we think because of because of uh natural disasters that everybody should worship Jesus on Sunday. You guys, the Sunday law is not just about a day off.

If a day off was was was was given today, Sunday is a day off. That's not the mark of the beast. The mark of the beast is the forced worship of Jesus. Is the forced worship of a Sunday Sabbath, not a Sunday to chill. It is a religious thing. And the only way atheists and Muslims and agnostics and newagers are going to do this is through spiritualism, which is not the UN, you guys. That is so we're better than that, you guys. We let's not be we need I think I I believe as time goes on we need to be so pinpointed and so accurate in our prophetic understanding that we cannot be gained right we don't make stuff up cut the fat take the take all the stuff out of the pot that doesn't belong there that's what I'm trying to say you guys can I say this go ahead go ahead because and I've I've told you this many many many many many many times that because it's through spiritualism like Satan again does not have power on his own.

He had to bring in the spiritualism aspect to be able to win people over. I feel like our focus like like let's just say when we have an evangelistic series we have one night on spiritualism. I I Yeah. Yeah. Yep. I believe this is me speaking. Okay. This is this is me speaking. I think that's a huge mistake. Yeah, we because people walk away and they're like, "Oh, the pope, the Catholic Church." That's true. That those points are true. But the Pope and the Catholic Church alone are not able to even bring the world together.

It is through spiritualism. So the reason why I say that we should focus on spiritualism because that is what's going to protect people when those dead loved ones come and your emotions are being tugged on. We both know how difficult that would be for the loved ones that we have lost. If you know, if you understand spiritualism, we will rebuke those dead loved ones that are really demons. Yes. And remember what what a lot of Adventists think is it's one here, one there. Like, oh, I woke up and I saw my No, it's an overwhelming, right?

It's the frogs of Egypt, right? when the frogs came up and three unclean spirits like frogs going out to to gather the whole world. It has to be around the United Nations and be overwhelming because if if just like I'll use my father as an example. If my father just popped up quote unquote father um who has passed away but it didn't happen for somebody else. Well, it would only affect me. It wouldn't affect the It has to be global. And everybody has lost someone. Yeah. We've all been impacted by death.

Look at this. Look, look at GC 588. Here's what she says. The line of distinction between professed Christians and the ungodly is now hardly distinguishable. Church members love what the world loves and are ready to join with them. And Satan determines to unite them in one body and thus strengthen his cause by sweeping all into the ranks of spiritualism. How's he going to do this? Through the United Nations. You guys, come on. Let's think that through. Think about how that sounds. The devil's going to use the United Nations to sweep everybody into No, no, no, no.

Listen to what she says. Papis who boast of miracles as a certain sign of the true church will be readily deceived by this wonderworking power. And Protestants having cast away the shield of truth will also be deluded. Papist, Protestants and worldling worldlings will alike accept the form of godliness without power and they will see in this union a grand movement for the conversion of the world and the ushering in of the long expected millennium. There she says it again. What is the long expected millennium?

It is when Jesus comes as Satan. And the ve the very next sentence through spiritualism, Satan appears as a benefactor of the race, healing the disease of the people and professing to present a new and more exalted system of religious faith. But at the same time, he works as a destroyer. You cannot make it more clearer than this. You cannot make it more clearer than this. And then I'm sorry, let me read this last one. As the crowning act in the great drama of deception, Satan himself will personate Christ.

The church has long been has long professed to look to the Savior's advent as the consummation of her hopes. Now the great deceiver will make it appear that Christ has come. In different parts of the earth, Satan will manifest himself among men as a majestic being of dazzling brightness, resembling the description of the son of God given by John in the revelation. The glory that surpasses him is unsurpassed by anything that mortal eyes have yet beheld. The shout of triumph rings out in the air. Christ has come.

Christ has come. The people prostrate themselves in adoration before him while he lifts up his hands and pronounces a blessing upon them as Christ blessed his disciples when he was upon the earth. His voice is soft and subdued, yet full of melody. In gentle, compassionate tones, he presents some of the same gracious heavenly truths which the Savior uttered. He heals the diseases of the people and then in his assumed character of Christ claims to have changed the Sabbath to Sunday and commands all to hallow the day which he has blessed.

When does a command to hollow the day come? When Satan himself gives it. And when he gives it, all the people are ready to believe it and demand it because they believe this is Jesus. Beloved, Satan does not need the United Nations. No. See, this idea of needing the United Nations to enforce here's where here's where that idea comes from. That idea is like all the Christians of America are going to be like gunned up, you know, like, you know, hiding out while the UN is sending out their forces and their troops to get the Americans.

You guys, that's evangelical prophecy. That's not what we believe. But here we are, which is weak and basic, which is weak and basic. It's not true. Here we are mixing that into the pot. I'm almost done. I go ahead. You go ahead and talk. I got a little more to share and then we're going to be done. Um I would just I I just want to say that because it just the thought just came to me like because the whole world is deceived on the state of the dead. Like literally the whole world is deceived. atheist, Muslims, Buddhists, Catholics, Bapt I mean I don't care what who you are.

That is the one thing that they have no shield for. Neither Catholics, neither Protestants, neither the world. So it's so easy. Absolutely. He already has the world on that. All he That's why he's coming with spiritualism because he already has them right there in the same space. All he has to do Yeah. is popup the dead demon loved ones as it so he already has and that is why I know just like you're passionate about what you're passionate about I am so passionate about this I really believe that this should be our focus you need to speak into the mic okay guys this bring you closer this should be our focus I truly believe this because this is what they're going this is what's going to deceive them so let me say this and I haven't said this in a while but you Because this is this is when I realized I was like, "Yeah, okay.

I get it now." Wow, Tiffany. It is. The Pope is to Satan what John the Baptist was to Jesus. Yeah. You Yeah. John the Baptist said, "I am not the one." But our problem is we have kind of eliminated Satan out the picture or even put his appearing after the close of probation. So, it doesn't really matter. So all we're focused on is the papacy, the pope. What did he do? What did he do? The pope has no power to convince the atheist, the skeptic, the Muslim, the Buddhist, he has no power to convince them that they should be worshiping on the first day of the week.

He has no power to do that. So the if the pope were to say today, I demand everybody worship. You know what would happen? World War II, people would be like, "Why? Why should I listen to the Pope?" Right? Like that's why it doesn't matter who the next pope is. You guys, it doesn't take the time that we have now to preach the message and prepare the people for the overwhelming delusion that is coming that will happen without warning. Mhm. There is no sign. Which is why I say over and over again, that's why all 10 virgins are sleeping when this thing happens because nobody knows when it's coming, right?

It's not something you could look out for and say, "Oh, I think the devil is about to do his thing now because this and this and this happened." So, I got one more thing to share and then we'll wrap this up. Okay? So we know the United Nations isn't in Daniel 2 because the toes of iron and clay is is church craft and state craft. It is the uniting of the whole world. It is not about the United Nations organization. Do I've never heard anybody any of our evangelists preach the United Nations organization from Daniel chapter 2.

So it's not there. It's not in Daniel 7. It's not in Daniel 11. All right, let's go over to Revelation. It's not in Revelation chapter 13. It's not in Revelation chapter 12. It's not in Revelation 11. Some say, "Oh, well, what about Revelation chapter 17?" So, let's go. Let's go to Revelation chapter 17. And um I'm going to put the verse up on the screen. Here's the verse that people suggest. They're not saying this is it. They're saying, "Oh, maybe it's here." And the t horns which thou sawest are 10 kings which have received no kingdom as yet.

but receive power as kings, one earth with the beast. These have one mind and shall give their power and strength unto the beast. So I just want you to see uh see what sister White says right here on this and we can do this from the Bible but I just want to show you just so that you can see very quickly. In the 17th of Revelation is foretold the destruction of all the churches who corrupt themselves by idolatrous devotion to the service of the papacy. Those who have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.

Huh? Notice how she used the word churches. Churches. Here's what she says. Thus is represented the paper. Oh. So then um John writes and she quotes Revelation 17 1-4. And then she says, "Thus is represented the papal power which with all deceivleness of unrighteousness by outside attraction and gorgeous display deceives all nations, promising them, as did Satan, our first parent, all good to those who receive its mark, and all harm to those who oppose its fallacies." The power which has the deepest inward corruption will make the greatest display, and will clothe itself with the most elaborate signs of power.

The Bible plainly declares that this cover up that this cover is a corrupt and deceiving wickedness. Upon her forehead is written the name Babylon, mother of harlots. Then she says this, "What is that? What is it that gives its kingdom to this power?" So now she's just come back. Come back to me for a second. Come back for a second. She's asking the question, what is it that gives its kingdom to this power? M because in Revelation chapter 17 it says these 10 horns reign with this with uh with uh this power for you know an hour.

They give their strength and power onto it. So she's asking the question who are these 10 horns and I want you to notice what she says you guys. So you said you know that game was the prices right where they say survey says is it survey you remember that surve Yeah. Yeah. survey says I don't know if that's price and they'll go ding and you see the sign come up. No, that's um that's family feud. No, no, no. Family feud is right. No price family. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Where where they turn the letters.

Yeah. Yeah. They see what people say and then service and it's family feud. Family feud. Yeah. So many of you said Price is right about prices. Yeah. Many of you said nations. The United Nations. That's who the T horns are. That's who gives it power and strength to the beast. Please note what she says here. It is family feud. It is family feud. Ready for the ding, you guys? Here it goes. First of all, United Nations is incorrect. It is not there. What is the answer? Let's read it. Put it up on the screen.

What is it that gives its kingdom to this power? Protestantism. A power which while professing to have the temper and spirit of a lamb and to be alive to heaven speaks with the voice of a dragon, it is moved by a power from beneath. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Protestantism. You know what that tells me? That tells me that the whole world will be converted to Christianity. Just as we read just a little while ago, the whole world will be converted to follow Jesus. I know what many of you may be thinking right now.

But what about all the books and all the juicy stuff that we got from those books? You mean we can't talk about the UN anymore? You could talk about the UN all you want. I I'm not saying don't talk about the UN. I'm just saying do not present it as part of our prophecy. Yes. And if you want to go off on stuff that is not a part of our prophecy, you know, if you want to pay attention to things that don't matter, if you have energy for that, no, I no, don't pay attention to that. Pay attention to Jesus and the truth and our correct prophecies.

Learn them properly. Do not let a a just a glaze go over your mind. Be able to teach it um to others so that they can understand. be able to teach people the truth about the state of the dead. I mean, like, and tie it in with the prophecy so they can understand they don't want to be deceived. Stop eating prophecy stew, right? And I know what's going to happen like, you know, many people like this, wait a minute, United Nations has to be in, well, if United Nations is where where you all think it is, then the Jehovah's Witnesses were right and the evangelicals are right.

And how come Ellen God didn't give Ellen White this vision? How come how come she didn't see that uh there would be a uniting of a certain uh you know system of nations that would assist the papacy in doing x y and z. So my belief you guys and we're going to end on this note is that Satan is simply trying to distract the church in any way that he can in any way. And one of the ways that I think in which he's doing it now which is we will close on this point is that the church is not the church. One more question I want to answer.

One more thing I want to deal with is the church is not the organization. The church is actually the people and there are people going around saying this and doing all kinds of you know here's the evidence that and there's a statement that they're using. I'm going to put the state up statement up on the screen and then we'll we'll close. We're just going to do this very quickly. So look at this. Let's go to the screen. Let's go to the screen. Um, and uh, here we go. God has a church. It is not the great cathedral.

Adventists don't have cathedrals. Neither is it the national establishment. Neither is it the various denominations. I don't think she was saying here. Some people are taking this to say that the denomination of seventh day Adventism is what she's talking about, including this in this statement. She's not talking about Adventism in this statement. She's talking about the various denominations which make up mystery Babylon. It goes on to say, "It is the people who love God and keep his commandments."

Well, who are they? Well, they are the people who make up the Seventh Day Adventist Church. Mhm. So to say that the church is really where two or three people are gathered, which it is. And that means that the church is not the organization is is absolute fallacy. It's it's it's putting something into the statement that is not there. You cannot say, "Oh, the church is the people, right? But it's not the system." No, the church is the people and it's the system. God has always had an organization.

Mhm. When he when he when he called the children of Israel out of Egypt in the Old Testament, he created an organized church. He gave them a system of how to do things. There was a temple or there was a system. In the New Testament, God gave the New Testament church a system and that's why they had the council of Jerusalem. There was a system and there was order. So God has an order church. During the dark ages when the church was scattered, Yeah. the woman was in the wilderness. There was no system.

it was the people. But after coming out of Babylon in 1844, God has a system again. That's what 1844 is all about. God has an organization on church. So to say that God does not have an organization on church, the next step will be the church is Babylon, right? It's not you won't say that yet. But you're setting yourself up to then say the organization is Babylon and the organization can be Babylon because the real church is the people. Let me read one statement here and then we'll wrap this up.

She says here uh two statements, I'm sorry. She says, "Yet the feeling against organizations um was very strong among our people. The Adventists generally who had who had withdrawn from the churches of the various denominations." There goes that term again. Various denominations under the call of the second angel's message to come out of Babylon opposed organization. No, no, no, no, no. That's organization is Babylon. We don't want to organize. And manyday Adventists were fearful that church organization would bring us under condemnation.

We sought the Lord with earnest prayer that we might understand his will. and light was given to us by his spirit that there must be order and thorough discipline in the church that organization was essential. guys listen if we can here's my here's my fear and you can you can you can be the organization that God has called and still you're not that's ran by human beings so it's not going to be perfect. That's right. Because human beings are not perfect. Israel was not perfect. Was there corruption in the church in the wilderness?

Yes, there was. Was there corrup is there corrupt? Would there be cor? Because there's going to be corruption with the people if there was no organization because we're human. Period. And we'd probably be I'll be honest. If there was no structure, we would be worse. would be worse because without any structure and the human beings just do their own thing. Do their own thing without any structure, any guidance. Yeah, it would be worse. Yeah. Listen to what she says here. Listen what I just got. Five minutes and we're done.

Okay. Five minutes and we're done. Said that three times. I didn't say five minutes. You never said five minutes. Now I'm saying five minutes. He's winding cuz I literally have He's winding. He's getting close. Yeah. See? One. He's getting close. Two. Three. Four. Yep. Here we go. Killer way past my bedtime. I know. I'm sorry. He thrives in the night. I thrive in the morning. Here's what she says. Now, we can expect that a message would be true that would designate I'm sorry. Now, can we expect that a message would be true that would designate as Babylon the people for whom God has done so much?

In other words, yeah. Yeah. Maybe not the people, but the system is Babylon. Hell would triumph were such a message to be received and the world would be strengthened in iniquity. All the reproaches which Satan has cast upon the character of God would appear as truth and the conclusion would be made that God has no chosen or organized church in the world. Oh, what a triumph this would be to Satan and his confederacy of evil. God does not work in this way. He does not just he does not he does just what he said he would do in the 58th chapter of Isaiah.

Let me keep reading. Has God no living church? He has a church but it is not the church militant or but it is the church militant not the church triumphant. We are sorry that there are defective members that there are tears amid the wheat. Jesus said and she quotes the whole parable of the tears and the wheat. She goes on to say, "In the parable of the wheat and the tears, we see the reason why the tears were not to be plucked up. It was less the wheat should be uprooted with the tears. Human opinion and judgment would make grave mistakes."

But rather than have a mistake made and one single blade of wheat rooted up, the master says, "Let both grow unto the harvest." Listen you guys, I know I know that there is corruption in our church from the bottom, from the churches all the way to the top. I know that. How do I know that? Not because I have some inside information, but because Jesus said the wheat and the tears would grow together. He also said, "Do not uproot the wheat or the the tears, lest you also uproot the wheat." Right now, is this to say that you don't try to correct things that you see are wrong?

No. That's not what is being said at all. What is being said, though, is that God's church is still his church regardless of the human corruption that is in it. And it's his church because of the truth. because the truth not because of the people. Right? There is only one system on earth that has the system of truth and that is the remnant church. In that system of truth, there is a lot of error in the hearts of people. Yes, there is a lot of antagonism in the hearts of people. There are people who are willing to step on others and put others down so they can raise themselves up.

There are ministries that do this. Trust me, it doesn't make God's church Babylon. It doesn't make God's church no longer his church. And God gave us the example of Israel. That's right. So that we could see, okay, even when God has a church, it's a whole lot of mess that can go on, but it was still his church. That's right. Until it wasn't. And why was it not his church anymore? Because they rejected the truth. Right. Right. They rejected Jesus. And in rejecting Jesus, they no longer had the truth.

The church is the church because it is a system of truth, right? It's not the church because everybody in it is good and pure and holy and right and doing what you think it ought to be done right and everybody is this way in heaven. It's not that that it's the the church militant is God's church right now. It will eventually be the church triumphant, but we're not the ones that make it the church triumphant. Okay, I'm done. Um, to me that was its own that could be its own discussion. It own discussion and you just used it.

So to close off, but definitely could be its own discussion. So please put a one in the chat if you if you learned something tonight. Put a one in the chat if you were blessed tonight. Um, I learned something just by by discussing this again and fleshing some things out. Some I feel like the Holy Spirit brought some things to my mind that I hadn't thought of before. For sure. Yeah. My appeal is this, you guys. Number one, stay on the ship. That's right. Number two, throw overboard the stuff that doesn't belong on the ship, right?

Because it's weighing the ship down. It's weighing the ship down, but the ship will not sink. But the ship isn't going to sink. Get rid of prophecy stew. Just say no more prophecy stew for me. No more prophecy stew. Listen y'all, the people that are giving prophecy stew and feeding prophecy stew, when when it Oh, that didn't happen. That didn't happen. Mhm. It's almost like we just blink the eye and keep moving on. What's next? It's almost like a drug addict or drug dealer dealing drugs to a drug addict.

I Hey, I know you want your fix. You keep coming to me and providing business. I will keep giving you the fix. Right. I will keep You keep coming to me for the drug. I will keep giving you the dopamine. Well, this one didn't work. Yeah, but you know what? This one is better. Right. I got to get my head, you guys. Let's stop. Let's be accurate with our with our understanding of prophecy. Let's be accurate. No more prophecy stool. Let's get rid of the cha the chaff. Let's study our Bibles. Yes. Let's study our Bibles.

Done. Yes. Um, thank you. I enjoyed it. I will let you close off. And yes, please, if you joined um in the middle of this study, please go back and start at the beginning once it's done. I mean when you have time um at some point but if you have not subscribed to the power of the lamb channel please do so because uh you will uh and like please like uh this this session because you will get uh notifications when we go live with topics like this. Um, so please do that. And again, Living Mana Church and Power of the Lamb are two separate entities.

So you might be following us at Living Mana Church, which is wonderful, and we're thankful that you are there, too. But Power of the Lamb is is different. So, um, if you're wanting to get Power of the Lamb information, you'll need to subscribe to Power of the Lamb. But with that said, we want to invite you to church tomorrow. Um, Living Mana Online Church. If you enjoyed what you uh heard uh this evening, you will definitely be blessed at Living Mana Church tomorrow. And that starts at 12:00 p.m.

Central Standard Time. And you can Living Mana Church um YouTube channel to be able to view that. And my sermon tomorrow will be when no man can buy or sell. So I think you will not want to miss that. You don't want to miss. Yes. Well, this definitely was a blessing. Would you like to close? All right. I knew you were gonna say that because you've been doing all the talking. Okay. Bow your heads with me, please. Heavenly Father, Lord, I just thank you um just for this study tonight. I I was not going to join.

I decided to join like 40 minutes before we were going live. And I am so thankful that I did because for myself, it helped uh me to understand things in a more clearer way. And so, I pray that prayer for everyone who is viewing. And I pray that they will go and study this for themselves and they will not um have any more prophecy stew that uh they are promoting to others or even for themselves. Lord, your your word is so very clear and the truth in the in the basic of the of our real prophecies is just it's just it's right there and we don't need to add anything onto it.

We need to share that with the world. And so we ask all of these things in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Have a good evening and hope to see you um tomorrow. I want to say the morning, but it's not the morning for everybody.