[Music] Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Hey, Heat. Welcome. Welcome Living Mana Church family. It's so good to see you here at Living Mana Church today on the Sabbath day. We are so happy to see all of you. Please put in the chat where you're viewing from. And if this is your first time, please put a one in the chat. If you are visiting Living Mana Church for the very first time, let us know because we want to do give you a very special welcome and we just want to welcome you here to Living Mana Church again.

We are having quite the rainy wet Sabbath day here in Northern North Alabama. But um I was just reminded and brother Kashif hopefully you're watching because I was just reminded not to complain because he just sent that yesterday uh to a prayer group chat that we're both in but it's the video says for one week don't complain about anything. Instead switch it around and say something positive. So I had to say thank you Lord for all the rain today because it's going to make and yesterday and yesterday it was a lot of rain yesterday and thunderstorms and lightning and all of that.

Um, thank you for that because it's going to continue to make Alabama, where we live, green when the sun does come out again. That's right. That's right. So, that's the positive word. Thank you, Kashif, for the encouragement. Yeah. And not to put anybody on the edge, first of all, welcome. And, uh, uh, welcome to Living Mana Online Church. We're glad you are with us today. Yes. And um not to put anybody on edge, but yesterday during the the rain and the storm that I think was unexpected how heavy it was coming.

Um we actually lost some power. Wow. So I didn't realize that. You know why? In here. In here. Oh, really? So it's it's raining actually right now. Right. It started raining as soon as we were about to go live. Pray for pray for studio. Pray the pray that the power stays on. Um, we've got backup power and everything, but just uh so that we don't have any issues. But again, we want to welcome you. Glad that you're here. Let me say greetings to We need to say greetings. A lot of we got people from all over.

Welcome. Welcome. Uh Jennifer Logan from Tennessee, welcome. You're probably maybe depending on what part of Tennessee getting some of this rain too. Um Robert Ray from Walaw Wala, Washington, welcome to Living Mana Church. Uh let's see. Leela Peterson from North Carolina. Welcome to Living Manage Church. Blessings, Joy from Barb, sunny Barbados. Rubbing it in. Welcome to Living Manage Church uh here in rainy Huntsville, Alabama. But we're happy to have you here. More from Barbados. We are loved in Barbados.

We need to go visit Barbados. Never been to that island. Uh let's see. And we have Renee from our from our old stomping ground, San Jose, California. Welcome, Renee. All right, we got Columbia, sunny South Carolina. That is um that's right. That's that's Terry's hometown. I think it's Colombia. Yeah, I know it's South Carolina. I think right near there. Right near Columbia, I believe. Um All right. We have Feliz Abado from Marcela Johnson. Happy Sabbath to you, too, Marcella. Um, let's see. Regina from Brooklyn, New York.

More, of course. Ayana, our church member from Trinidad and Tobago. Western Washington. Oh, of course. Carrie, good to see you. Tell your family hello for us. There's Walaw Wala. I thought I said Walaw Wala up at the beginning, but welcome. And we got Phoenix. And I don't know if you see Barbara from Fricksburg, Virginia. Oh, Barbara. Hi. From our se our our second home for sure. We spend lots and lots of time there. We'll be there shortly. Um, let's see. Yeah, there's just lots of people. All right, I got Queens, New York.

Esther from Queens, New York. Good to see you here. Welcome, Jerry from Rochester, New York. We got Queens in in the city and we've got Rochester. What? Way up in in upper up um what do you guys call it? Upstate. Upstate New York. Upstate New York. That's what New Yorkers call it? Upstate. All right. Welcome here. MNA from Tacoma, Washington. Welcome here to Living Matter Church. We are happy to see all of you. Um okay. Happy Sabbath. Whoa. Whoa. It went fast here. Martha from Lebanon. Is that the Lebanon the church or Lebanon the country?

Because there's a church Lebanon in New York. Let's find out because Yeah. Tell us if that if that's the church. Isn't that where you got baptized? That's where I was baptized the first time. The first time. No, actually, actually, no, no, no, no. That's where you were introduced. That's where you and the group went the first time. That's Then we were baptized at Kingsboro. So, Beirut, Lebanon. Wow. Oh, okay. Wow. Well, welcome. Welcome. Is this your first time? I feel like it's the first time I ever said Lebanon.

So, I need a one. But we're so happy to have you, Martha from Beirut, Lebanon. So happy to have you. Please let us know if this is your first time. Uh, then we have Janice from BISE. Welcome. All right. I love it. We are We are It's so funny. Some Sabbaths were more heavy on the international side and then some Sabbaths were more heavy on the on the mainland or in America side or North America. So, Oh, yeah. Very. Yeah, that's cool. Um yeah, first time. Well, welcome. Just to let you know, gota gonna give my little spill for you, Martha.

And everybody, please welcome Martha. She's here for the very first time. And this is an 100% online church. And we have we are not just here on Sabbath, but we are here during the week. So, I just want to tell you a little bit about that. We have Mental Health Monday programming and it's hosted by myself and Dr. White. He is a psychiatrist and I'm a licensed therapist and we cover all things mental health. We also have True Health Tuesday where we have two uh doctors and a licensed uh nutritionist where they talk about um how you can live a healthy life and and things that you can do for your health to better your health.

We have power Wednesdays on Wednesday where our prayer team leads out in a prayer service that is beautiful. Um, on Thursday we have our associate, our young adult pastor who leads out in a program on Thursday. So Martha, please stay with us because I'm going to tell you how you can sign up to get more information about living man church and stay connected in the divine worship service. So we are happy that you are are here with us. Um, and we are hope you come back. So definitely Amen. sign up to get those alerts.

Yeah. uh your shirt. I was That's why I was turning this way. I was like and I saw you. I saw you. I was like shirt uh but seek first his kingdom. The whole scripture is down here. Okay. Matthew 6:33. But seek ye first the kingdom of God. Uh first but the but first this the top part is is important. Um the whole verse is important. Um, this stood out to me. Um, just because this is something, this key phrase first, when you first feel emotions of anger, seek God. When you first feel anxiety, seek God, which is fear.

When you first have bouts of sadness, which can lead into depression, seek God first. Let that be the first thing that you do. Imagine yourself turning to God, laying your emotions and your issues just like almost even laying I mean I you could imagine how you want to imagine, but I could see myself falling on on on Jesus's lap, you know, just like I'm bringing this to you. I need help. Please help me to feel better. My emotions are too strong. They're trying to pull me in the wrong direction. Take a deep seek God first and then take a deep breath and calm down and think from here.

Give him everything and then make your moves. Don't just make moves just off of the feeling and that emotion because you're gonna make the wrong move, say the wrong thing, do the wrong thing, seek God first, breathe, and then do what you have to do. Y So, amen. That's the encouragement for today. Amen. Amen. So, you also wanted to talk about your upcoming sermon for Yeah. Yes. So, um, actually, uh, today is, and we haven't done this in quite a while, but today is Evangelism Sabbath. Okay. And I know we typically do Evangelism Sabbath at the end of the month, but over the last several months, until this year, yeah, happened.

It's just, you know, a lot has been going on, which most of you know. So, um, so even though this is the first Sabbath of the month, um, I decided to do an evangelism Sabbath. Now, um this evangelism Sabbath subject today is you've heard me talk about it before. I am going to be talking about um the overmastering delusion um of Satan appearing as Christ. But every time I've presented it, I've presented it using today. Oh, okay. Yeah. every time I pre presented it, I presented it using uh quotes from the spirit of prophecy and I've mostly spoken to, you know, an Adventist audience.

So today um I'll be presenting it for the first time strictly from scripture. I'm excited. So, and here's why that's relevant because put a one in the chat if you've been to um you know, if you've been to our evangelistic series, seen our evangelistic series. Sat Adventist in general. Yeah. The Adventist evangel evangelistic series. I know for for me I've been to many Yeah. I have I don't think I have ever seen a presentation on Satan appearing as Christ. Not a not a whole presentation. It it might have been it might have been mentioned, but I don't know.

You you tell me if you've seen one where you know the whole thing is about Satan appearing as Christ. I know. You know what's weird? Yeah. for me because you know I was raised my story is so different than your story but I was raised Adventist and um I vaguely I can't seem to remember sitting in a series hearing that but because my like grandfather and grandmother well my grandfather really was such a deep studyer of the word and would always do our worships and you know closing and ending the Sabbath and all that stuff it and I just feel I like that I feel like I've heard that before.

That wasn't new to me. That wasn't a new concept to me. Now, but your grandfather didn't do an evangelistic series, did he? No, he didn't. But I'm just saying that we could Well, not that I know of. So, so I mean I I know that people understand it and and people believe it and may have always believed so, but what I'm saying is that as a presentation, no, right from in in an evangelistic series. Um I've never seen it. I know that up until, you know, a few, in fact, in my last um full evangelistic series, I know I didn't cover it because at that time I didn't have that, you know what I'm saying?

That that understanding that I do now. So I think today's presentation is going to be special in that it is going to be presented strictly from the scripture because I think for a lot of people that they might be like well I can you know I can talk about that but I would prove that from the word right. I could go to Yeah, I could go to Spirit of Prophecy and show, hey, she says this, here, she says this here, she says this. But how do we how do we teach this as part of an evangelistic series from the Bible using the Bible only?

So, and that's what we want to do for everything. And that's what we want to do for that's what we do for everything. I know that's but I almost an important principle for everyone else to really really um study in that way. Yeah. Yeah. And it's almost as if because we have way too many challenges to be like, "Oh, you guys are Ellen White heavy. You can only do that through Ellen White." But to shut all that noise down, you have to be able to present from the Bible. And maybe it hasn't been presented because people are like, "Well, it's not really revealed in the scripture, but you can clearly see it in spirit of prophecy."

Now I believe it is clearly revealed in scripture. So we're going to be looking at that today. So again we every evangelism Sabbath we say make sure that you share you know particularly with those who may not be uh familiar with uh with Adventism. Share this with everybody and share this on your social media. Yeah. Because this is needed for Adventists for non-adventists for everybody. Yeah. So as I preach today it again it will be directed towards it'll be as if you know nothing. Right. I'm going to be speaking to um you know, hopefully I'm going to be directing this message just like every other evangelism Sabbath to those who may have never heard these things before and it's going to be straight from the Bible.

So again, make sure you share this link, share it with uh with people that you would like to see. This is going to be an important message today. It's going to be simple. Believe it or not, it is so simple in the scripture that it's it's amazing that it hasn't been taught. Mhm. Um at least on a scale that I believe that it should be. But um anyway, make sure you share the link. Okay. Um so I'm excited about that. And uh as I was putting it together yesterday, I was just like, "Wow, this is coming together like really, really, really nicely.

Something even some things I had not seen before." Um so anyway, yeah, I knew you were working on something. You were very quiet. Yeah. Yeah, very quiet. It was just away, tucked away quietly. And for Sour School, we're kind of actually keeping it along the same lines. We're going to be talking about developments, prophetic developments that have been uh happening over the last few days. Few days um and weeks and months and actually years. So, yes. And happy Sabbath, daughter. I thought that was our daughter.

I just saw her name. So, um, so yeah, we are doing that and we do have because we sent out an alert that it's question and answer Sabbath, which it is, but we decided that the last we decided we're going to do something different. It Yeah. So, we're going to try to see if we can mix the two. But, if you have questions on the subject we're about to talk about, that's where your questions are going to be directed to. I do have religious. We're gonna be talking about questions. Um we're gonna be talking about the merging of church and state.

Um particularly with what's been happening um with the religious liberty commission that has just been formed on Thursday uh on Thursday into law. Uh and we're going to be focusing on that because we believe it is very significant. Um and we want to we want to talk about it. So okay, that's what we're going to be discussing. And if you got questions along that line. Yes. And I'm going to answer chat. Two of the mental health questions I got and then we're going to jump into this. Yeah. Is that okay?

That's okay. Yeah. So you pray for us. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, we ask Lord that as we uh get into the Sabbath school today, Lord, that you would please just speak through us, Lord, that um your word will be made clear, Lord, that this subject will be made clear. And um Lord uh help us to realize that we are uh truly living in in um monumental times. Lord um open our eyes that we may see and uh we thank you Lord for giving us this opportunity to worship together in Jesus name we pray. Amen.

Amen. Amen. So let's see. got a few mental health. Well, I'm just gonna I'm just gonna answer two quickly so we can jump. And as you're doing that, Janice, this just actually know that um I'm going to be beginning a series here soon. Um and I'm going to call the series CrossFit. Uh, and the series will demonstrate how the cross fits as the center of all doctrines in the Bible. So, you're such a play on words. Such a play on words. Yeah, you're funny. So, crossfit. Yeah, crossfit. How does a cross fit with the Sabbath?

How does a cross fit with hellfire? How does a cross fit with the state of the dead? All of the things. How does a cross fit with the investigative judgment? And what I want to demonstrate is that the cross is the center of all of our teachings. Yes. And in order for the teaching to be rightly understood, it's got to be seen in light of the cross. So, I may actually be doing this as an evangelistic um as a full evangelistic series on Sabbath morning, four living men, right? State of the dead one one topic.

But this is he has to do that. But this is this this will be on Sabbath. So, this would be a series of sermon. We just finished the nine uh essentials and so um look out for that and and it will be coming be really good very soon. Very soon. Okay. Okay. So Okay. I have a question and and the question says the Bible says that we should that we should esteem that we should not esteem that we should not esteem ourselves better than other than other themselves. Uh what is the difference between esteeming others and people pleasing?

In both someone else let's see what is in in both someone else whatever is given first consideration. Yes. Okay, that's how they worded it, but I think I understand the question. So, this happens a lot of time. First of all, Dr. White and I did a three-part series, three-part on mental health Mondays on people pleasing. We were going off of the book, The Disease to Please. And this question, we actually addressed it there as well. And this happens, this is asked a lot um especially in the Christian circles because when we're saying, you know what, you need to set boundaries and you need to not just be um um an addicted people pleaser.

Um because meaning and people will say, well, isn't it good to do nice things for other people? It is good to do nice things for other people and God does call us to do that. But in the Christian circle with a people pleaser, they have a hard time setting boundaries and they have a hard time saying the beautiful no. And the verse that this person was talking about um the in context that verse it's talking about not um esteeming yourself better like oh I'm prettier than her. I have a better uh job than him or um you know I'm just a better person than this person.

like you're not supposed to um try to make yourself seem better than other people. Um and so people pleasing is different than what that scripture is talking about. Um again, it is not being able to say no because you're afraid that people are not going to like you. They're not going to want you if you say no. And the only way that you can get them to like you is to do these things. So you're not even coming from a healthy place. You're coming from a place of I'm trying to get you to like me, so I'm going to do everything and I'm and I'm scared that you're not going to like me, so I'm going to do all these things.

I don't even really want to do it, but I'm going to do it because I want you to like me. And so it's not the right motives. Um, and so it that's why it is different from that verse that you that you asked about. Okay. Do you have anything you want to say about that? No, no, no. You I think you Okay. got that good. Okay. So, there was one other question and I have to find it really quickly here. Um, there were a lot of actually mental health questions today. So, someone is asking that's that same question.

Oh, boy. All right. Someone basically I'll have to paraphrase it because I can't just pull it up right here, but they're basically was was saying that they've been to therapy a lot. they've done all different types of therapy and they're not having um success. I mean, she had mentioned a lot of different things and she's still just dealing with a lot of stuff and she was asking and she was interested in ketamine and I don't know um if a lot of people may not be familiar with what ketamine is and it is actually uh something they use um when you like for anesthesia when you're going into surgery.

It's a part of that. it can be a part of that in a much higher dose. And then they have mo recently in in the in the last I don't know I don't know the date actually so I shouldn't make it seem like it's just the last few years. I don't know how long they've actually been using ketamine. Not it hasn't been that long for mental health but they are starting to use ketamine for mental health. Let's just say in the last 10 years I think it's safe to say that um on certain in certain situations or people can go and have that treatment done.

Um and this person was asking what I think about it. So I'll give my opinion that um where I have spoken to some people who say that they do get relief for some of their depression and anxiety and different mental health issues. Um it it's like it's you have to keep going back uh to do that because they can't seem to um it almost makes you dependent upon that. So I don't want to it is a drug and I know people take anti-anxiety and anti-depress depressants and all of those type of things. Um but with ketamine you go into I want to say a trip.

When I say a trip, like you're literally you're you're high. I mean, you're high. You're you're I don't want to say hallucinating quite. You're not quite hallucinating, but you're going in different places in your brain that you don't go to just like what we would do right here in our natural state. Like it literally takes you into different places in your brain and you start to see things different and get a different perspective and then you come out with that understanding. So, I um I'm not a I'm not a supporter of it.

Obviously, people can see that I'm not a supporter of it because I don't know what's going to happen, you know, in that I call it a trip because you're going into a place that you can't go to unless you're high on that drug, right? Um and so um anything could happen there and you could get a very not a good perspective at all and then there's no therapist or somebody there to help you process that in a healthy way. Does that make sense? It could make it worse. But there are people who who who do that.

Um and it's not cheap. It's expensive to do that. So I don't promote it. But um people have their freedom of choice to do what they want. So, anyways, that's ketamine. Okay. All right. So, those are the two questions that I'm going to answer. And now we're going to jump in. If you have questions about what we're about to present now, please put it in the chat as we're presenting. Yeah. Okay. So, um we are and you know, someone just I'm gonna Yeah, I saw a question here. Um, should we as Adventists be protesting the coming together of church and state and also the inhumane treatment of migrants, those with darker skin and all and uh all the rights people are losing?

So, this is kind of a a heated not a heated this is a a firecracker question, but it's a good question. But it's a good question. Um, let me just say it this way. when they start coming for Christians, which the Bible prophesies. Um, I think we will appreciate people standing up against the ill treatment of those who keep the commandments of God and have the faith of Jesus. Right. Right. or maybe they're not even keeping the commandments of God. But we should treat others the way that we would want to be treated ourselves.

So how how I think we absolutely should be protesting that which is um which is unjust. So the argument of whether this is actually unjust or not, I'm not even addressing that. But if there is something that is unjust then God's people I believe should raise the voice in defense of others just as we would want people to raise their voice in protest if something you know persecution were to happen um towards us right so do unto others as you would have them do unto you right treat others it's as you would want to be treated and I'm Sure, if some one of y'all got arrested today for something that you didn't do, right, you would certainly want uh other voices uh speaking up.

So again, this is not addressing what is actually just or unjust. It it is addressing if the thing is unjust, then our voices should be raised. Um, how however we we we protest because we are Protestants, right? And Protestants protest. Um, we we we ought to do so. There's nothing not Christian about protesting. Yeah. It's a Christian thing to do. Yeah. Um, and in a nice way, right? And um we're to do that within the context of the three angels messages, right? We're to do that in the context of the everlasting gospel, uh that's always our context.

That's always our context. So, um with that said, with that said, uh let's talk about what's been happening. Yeah. Lately. And I'm sure you're going to read something from there. I probably you should just read it, but I just saw it like Thursday. I guess it happened Thursday afternoon. I didn't see it. Yeah. Been until Thursday evening. Um scrolling on social media. And so yeah, news alert. So yeah, absolutely. we so a religious uh committee was just formed a department a department that is designed to uh again root out anti-Christian bias.

Um, and it supposedly says in their wording to protect religious liberty, right? Because it's in the constitution. Didn't know it was not being protected, but yeah. So, this is But then, okay. So, um, you know, as I was s as I was looking at this and there's a lot of people online talking about, you know, what significance this has. And one thing I want to I want to say right off the bat is that I believe religious liberty is going to be the umbrella under which the prophetic um the prophetic warnings that we have seen in the scriptures are going to unfold.

Mhm. In other words, the Bible talks about um the the union of the beasts from the earth and the beasts from the sea and the dragon and that they're going to end up enforcing religious worship, but it is going to be under the guise of religious liberty. Mhm. And I don't think it's coincidence that we're hearing all this talk about religious liberty. And in my estimation, um, religious liberty is being manipulated. Yes. It is being distorted into something that it it it is not. Mhm. And this distorted view of religious liberty, I think we're seeing that unfold before us right now.

Mhm. Um I did a we did a message, I think it was our Friday night a couple of weeks ago where we were talking about persecution in America versus persecution around the world in regards of Christianity. Do it together. You did it. Are you sure you weren't on with me? Not Friday night. I was I was it a f I was just So it may have been my It may have been my sermon. It may have been I don't think it was your sermon, but it was the one. Anyway, so so basically I was showing how um how around the world there is actual persecution, right, of Christians happening around the world.

People are literally being killed, right? Mhm. And here in America, our religious persecution is I am being forced I can't send my kids to um the government won't pay for me to send my kids to private school. I'm being persecuted, right? Or I I was forced to bake a cake. I was forced to bake a cake. Now, I'm not saying that these things don't effect have an effect on Thank you, Lisa. Yeah. have an effect on this was a sermon have an effect on people you know on their livelihood and things of that nature.

Um I'm not saying persecute I mean I'm not saying that Christians in America do not face uh you know our constitution has protected us very well absolutely very well and that's why America has done so well in that realm yeah and in cases where other countries have not in cases where your religious liberty is being trampled upon you have recourse in other countries you don't really have recourse If they it is what it is and that's it. You protect our Sabbath rights are protected. I mean if if I mean you can you can you can take it to the court.

You can you can Yeah. If they get rid of you because you you know they're discriminating against you because you're you won't work on Sabbath. You can fight that. Yeah. Yeah. So, so the idea then that uh a committee needs to be formed to protect religious liberty in America, the Constitution does that. The Constitution already does that. Now, interestingly enough, the the we're told in prophecy that the this these liberties will be taken away. And I think the ironic thing is that they're gonna be taken away under the guise of religious liberty, right?

Because when you look to Christian nationalism, their argument of religious liberty is actually religious favoritism. Right. Right. Christians should have the liberty. I was not Muslims. Thank you. I was just going to say that. Not should the American tax dollars pay for. Okay. If it's paying for Christians to send their kids to Christian school, then it should pay for Muslims to send their kids to to Muslim schools and for Buddhists the same. And for Jews, the same. And you know, it's But that's not what they're talking about.

No. No, that's not what they're talking about. they are this in fact the very fact that this um religious committee has been formed and so I believe there's two of them there's the one that was uh there's there's one headed up by Paula White well okay and this is something new okay yeah this is something new that came out on Thursday because the one I think the one that's headed up by Paula White is just a religious um group of pastors and religious leaders that um that are for the president or for the White House.

Do you see what I'm saying? Like but this is assigned into law religious liberty. Yeah. So again you guys religious liberty is being I'm going to use this word is is being prostituted. Well brother Kashie said yes there's two. So yeah, if if there's different if it's different than what I said, brother Kashe, put a one in the chat and you might, you know, so you can explain and you can explain in the chat too. Yeah. Or, you know, put you can put the the the the two there are two different uh names and this just slipping my mind right now, but one was done um as an executive order, I believe it was, right?

Um and then uh this one is a new one. I want and I want to get into this for more. We're going to get into this shortly, but because if it's different than what I said, I'm not as familiar with the Paul White thing then. So, religious liberty is being prostituted. It is being manipulated. Mhm. Um the understanding of it is and I think we've even seen it in the church that in the church there's now you know well what really is religious liberty right right it's it's it's there's a lot of confusion now I think Satan has brought in confusion about what religious liberty actually is even inside the church, but we're not going there today.

Um, so let's talk about um before you take a deep. Yeah, this question keeps coming up. People are people are asking more than one saying like like what your thoughts are about uh the picture from last night. We're not We're Yeah, we're just hold on. Okay. Just hold on. Okay. We're We're going in order here. Okay. So, I'm going to pull it up. I'm gonna see if I can pull up on my computer and just read uh let's see. Okay. So uh this is from here's one article and it's being written all about all over but Trump creates a religious liberty commission on national day of prayer and it says President Donald Trump signed an executive order Thursday morning establishing a presidential commission on religious liberty during a White House Rose Garden event in honor of the National Day of Prayer.

The commission panel will include members like US housing secretary uh Ben Carson, talk TV show host Phil McGra, and Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick, who will also serve as the chair. Now, I know what all I know what y'all are thinking. What do you think about? Don't ask me what I think about. I'm not even going to mention that. All right, we're just going to leave that be. Here's what I do want to show you, though. Who is Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick? I'm going to ask uh our broadcast team if you can go ahead and play um the video uh to show who Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick is, who is going to be chairing this new committee.

So, let's see if we can we can play that that video. Louisiana public schools are now required to display the Ten Commandments in all classrooms. Republican Governor Jeff Landry signed that bill into law today. The legislation specifies the text must be printed in quote large and easily readable font. Louisiana is the only state with this mandate. Legal challenges of that law are expected. Well, last year, Texas lawmakers tried to pass a similar measure, but it failed. Okay. Um, and I don't I don't know if Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick was mentioned in the clip.

I think he was. If he was, if he was not, this is the Yes. Who is seeking to in fact, do we have another clip? Can you show Can you guys show the first clip? I don't know if it's if it's not of Lieutenator uh of uh the lieutenant governor. Um you don't have to show it. If it is, I want you to put up. Okay? I don't think it is. We'll just go ahead and I'm just going to tell you to go ahead and look up who this is. This is the same governor who is seeking to have the Ten Commandments placed in all the schools in Texas.

Not you guys. And I'm sure prayer in school. Prayer in school and the Ten Commandments in school. Just think that through for a moment, y'all. Just think that through for a moment. So remember some time back um a few months back we did a presentation on this movement to get the ten commandments into public schools and we looked at I believe it was uh either North Carolina or South Carolina. We looked at Texas was one of the places we looked at. Arizona, how there is this movement, um, a united effort, might I add, to bring the Ten Commandments back into the public school into the public school system.

And Lieutenant Governor, uh, Dan Patrick is the guy that was leading this mission out in Texas. He is now the chair of this religious liberty commission. Oklahoma's one of them as well. Yes, Regina. Think that through. You guys, Commandments into all the schools in Texas is now heading up this commission. Now, I don't And by the way, he's trying to get the Ten Commandments in all the schools based upon religious liberty arguments. We should have the liberty. Christians should have the liberty to post the Ten Commandments.

As Michelle just said, the problem isn't with the Ten Commandments. The problem is that the ten commandments are are supposed to be posted in our hearts, right? And when you talk about legalism, I kind of I'm kind of going off going a little bit off here. And whose version? Because And whose version? Does the Catholics? Yeah. They got a different version. They have a different version. Legalism. This is the definition of legalism, you guys. We're going to make it legal. We're going to make it a law that the Ten Commandments should be government.

The very same people, mind you, who say the Ten Commandments have been done away with, you don't need them on your heart. You don't need them in your heart. We're under a new law now. Legalism is literally we're going to force you. And this is the beginning of that, you guys. This is what we're seeing. What are the odds that the guy who is seeking to implement the Ten Commandments into public schools in Texas is the guy Trump chooses to head up this national religious committee to protect religious to protect religious liberty.

And what I read and it kind of goes with kindness word. I we must have grown up at the same time because uh kindness kind I said kindness word. Kindness wins said um how do we as SDAs get so mixed up? When I was a kid we were against prayer in schools and the ten commandments being in public schools. And so I was just saying I grew up around the same time. I mean you know I believed the same thing when I was young and still do. But um I was going to say because I read the what was signed into law from the White House website.

So it wasn't misinformation, not from somewhere else. It's from their website, whitehouse.gov. Um and so the religious liberty areas because they feel like Christians have been discriminated against because they haven't been able to have those Christian things, prayer and school, ten commandments on the wall. So, they've been discriminated against and this specifically is going to be able to bring that back in along with Christian organizations being discriminated against from getting government funding for different things.

They feel like they've been and yeah and so that and they try well they try to rewrite the constitution that it means something different uh the separation of church and state. So that was the next thing that that's not what our right founding fathers were. Um and so Trump actually said this and it's unfortunate but you know to even mention the name Trump people going to be like oh you're getting political. So and I I I don't understand you know why that is. But I'm just saying this is what's happening right?

Prophecy yes the Bible's political. Yeah. Prophecy has to do with politics. It has to do with how politics is going to merge with Christianity, right? So if you want to say that's political, then you know then okay. Um uh that's what it is. Like Harry said too, she said, "We need a study about at Jones. We need a study on Absolutely." Yeah. So uh who defended religious liberty showed what religious liberty actually is. Yeah. And it's unfortunate that today in our church we we've got this mixed up idea of what religious liberty is, right?

And unfortunately, I think we're getting it from the very people who we see are twisting the definition and the meaning and the sacredness of religious liberty. Right. Because religious liberty is a sacred thing. Yes. Right. Um so, so again, you have this this talk of well there there's really no such thing as separation of church and state. And you know they said that oh you know well um they were joking when they said you know when they said that it was it was said as a joke but they only other people aren't joking fled Europe came over you know fled persecution wasn't a joke.

Yeah. Well that's what I'm saying. Well what I'm saying is they're saying that when that was said a few days ago by by the president you're saying that our fathers were joking. Okay. Okay. Got it. Um, so the fact is that there are people literally saying there is no such thing as separation of church and state. Now I've heard that before. For those of you who have said that uh, you know, uh, the Adventist church and you know this Ellen White, she's a false prophet and whatever, whatever. Mh. How do you explain How do you explain how what we're seeing now was said back then in the 1800s?

Yeah. Warning after warning after warning. This is coming. This is going to happen. We haven't seen it in American history. No. The way we're seeing it now. There has never been a time like this. They for the most part the Constitution has been very well protected and it has not tried to be tinkered with in the way that it's trying to be messed with now. So, this is significant. I want to I'm going to show another clip and let's go ahead and just show that picture. uh and I want to talk about the significance of this picture.

So, as we know, um the Catholic Church is now looking for a new pope. And um this picture, the picture that was posted last night, uh on yesterday, I believe it was at some point in time. Not sure when. like 10:07 p.m. Now, um, this picture is very significant. This picture is very significant. No, Donald Trump is not going to be the next pope. No, he that's that's just that's funny. He's not going to be the next pope. However, but why would he put that picture out? However, this is absolutely significant because in this one picture, what you have is a snapshot of Revelation chapter 13.

The first beast is the papacy. The second beast is apostate Protestantism, meaning Protestantism or Christianity that is not real Christianity. In this picture, you have those elements, church and state mingle together. Now again, Yeah. Yeah. Uh Nicole, a picture is worth 1,260 words. I love the way you put that. That picture is worth 1,260 words. Um, this amalgamation that we've been saying is coming of church and state, religio political power. Revelation 13, the first beast uh, from the sea. Revelation 13:11, the the second beast from the earth merging together.

Even though I believe that picture was was a joke, it is highly significant. Like there's a lot of I've seen I've seen a I saw this on regular social media and there's a lot of I saw Catholics saying this is this is very disrespectful and not funny. like it's they just whether you know we know in prophecy the role of the the system of the Catholic Church and all of that. This is still their leader who just passed away. That is like no empathy. No. Like that's just And you're supposed and you're the president of the United States that I can't I don't even know the number of how many Yeah.

millions of Catholics there are or just I know there's a billion around the world. I mean, it's just so um I have my therapist thoughts on why he would do something like that. So, and again, like for me, I'm not even talking about him I know as a person or what he did. I'm simply saying that the I was I was saying it wasn't nice. Yeah, it Yeah, sure. for the timing. I mean, right, it's not something funny at all. It shouldn't It shouldn't be a a joke in in any way, shape, or form. But but the fact is how there is no way to deny the prophetic significance of this this image.

Now again I'm not saying the image is prophetic. Not at all. The picture is prophetic. I'm not all I'm saying is that it is while while a joke it is highly significant. Mhm. Um, how many of you remember Saul? The story of Saul and Samuel. Um, Saul. What part of Saul? Yeah. Saul and his rebellion against God. Right. They wanted a king. Right. Right. Uh, that king was Saul. Um, and Saul the Saul becoming a king paved the way for all the other kings which paved the way for the rise the fall of Israel and the rise of Babylon.

Right? So when the people asked for a king, that's what paved the way for them eventually to be destroyed by Babylon. But there's something significant about Saul. Um when Saul when God actually left Saul, it was because Saul had done something, right? So Saul had been told to wait for Samuel. I'm going to read it in 1 Sam 1st Samuel chapter 13 verse 8. He tried seven days according to the set time that Samuel had appointed. But Samuel came not to Gilgag and the people were scattered from him. And Saul said, "Bring hither a burnt offering to me and peace offering."

And he offered the burnt offering. And this when when Samuel finally came, he was rebuked for what he had done. So here's the significance. Saul who was a king took upon himself the prerogatives of the priesthood. And in doing that in that moment what you saw joined was for on actually doing what the current Sabbath school is talking about. That's what Betina Whitehead said. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. We did hear somebody else doing it this morning too but yeah. So in Saul in that moment you had a combination of church and state and this was a rebellion against God.

It is so significant. This is the same thing with Constantine. In Constantine, you had a union of church state. And in this under this administration, and I guess there's no other way for me to say it without being accused of being political, but that's just going to have to be it. Then under this administration, there is a push. There is a Saulike spirit. There is a Constantine-like spirit within the administration, right? An attempt. So, I'm not pointing out one individual. I'm simply saying under this administration and the Christians who support it, there is a push to merge church and state together to do away with the distinguishing with the distinguishing with the separation of church and state and it's all happening before our eyes.

And I have to say that in a sense I'm I'm kind of happy that I'm not kind of happy I'm happy that more people are talking about it now because it's getting to the point where it is so obvious that to ignore it is is now being seen as as absolutely how can you even ignore it? You may not have wanted to talk about it before. you may have wanted to downplay it before, but now it's getting to the place where yeah, we we're now having to say even even though you may not have wanted to, man, I didn't want it to be under this, you know, admin.

And I'm not saying that this administration is going to bring in a Sunday law. Please remember that. We have been very consistent on that because certain things have to have to happen. A Sunday law will not be dependent upon any human being. No. And upon any administration, it is dependent on the overmastering delusion taking the whole world captive. Yes. What I am saying is that what we see happening now is definitely Satan setting the stage and I believe even God allowing us to see that this thing is is it's happening the way we have always taught that it would happen and it the the the fruit is ripe.

I like what Christian um Toronto said um saying so many non-adventists are seeing this truth. Yep. Because it's it's just such a while while so many Adventists are just like but No, that's sad. But the pro there's also a shaking and that I mean look the Bible the majority of God's people are out there are out there in the fallen churches are out there you know in other religious systems are out there not even believing you know right now yes but when they see this stuff coming to pass they're like wait a minute when they see this stuff happening Mariah we see you said I'm not an Adventist but this is indeed the truth praise Amen.

Praise God. Praise God. When you see this, and remember like when I'm watching secular people beginning to lift their voices against this union of church and state, it is absolutely mind-blowing because a lot of these people don't even believe in a Bible, right? Do you know how shocked they would be to know that the book that they think is fake, the book that they think is not real, actually foretold the very thing we are seeing now? Mhm. How do you explain a book that is this old, as old as a Bible, literally accurately foretelling what is going on right now.

And again, it's sad to say that, you know, for many people, screenshot Mariah's last um I gotta screenshot that we got to save this anyway. I guess this will be in the chat because guys, I don't know if you're not if you're watching on your TV and you're not on a on your phone to see comments. Mariah, who we're so happy that is here. She's not Adventist, but she's saying to you Adventists and to all of us, Adventist, why are you not proclaiming boldly? Like, that's a mic drop. If we could just let's just sit with that.

That That's a rebuke. That's a rebuke. It's a mic drop. If there ever was one, if there ever was one, that is it right there. Because I I always say we should have been the first ones way back way back we should have been lifting the warning voice saying look guys this is coming this is coming this is happening this is eight years ago was easily seen 10 years ago easily seen 12 years ago we could have easily seen this but by and large so many people were silent and now here we are and again this is not saying again we're here now and it's going to happen now.

That's not what we're saying. We're simply saying as Adventists, we have always taught this. We've all we've always understood this. But but something got in the mix. And we and we still just haven't gotten this into every nation, tongue, and people. But by God's grace, that's going to change. And that's going to happen. How powerful it has to happen. How powerful would it be for the world who is now really really like what's going on for them to go back and just even to say hey there's a book called the great controversy that literally lays out you don't even have to read the whole book go read the last 10 chapters of the book I know I'm stuck on Mariah but Mariah have you read the great controversy I'm just curious Yeah.

I'm just curious just to tell people, go read the last 10 ch 10 10 chapters of that book and compare it with what you see happening today. Do you know how many people would be like, "Yo, Ellen White's a prophet. I don't care what else you said about I don't care what she's a prophet. There is no way that this woman could have been writing in in the 1880s writing about what was coming to happen. And now we're seeing it happen just as it was said. But here we are. Here we are being silent being silent.

So again, when we're looking at all of these things, as we combine all these things together and begin to understand, I think the bottom church, we need to be about our father's business. We need to be with a united voice. focused on this thing right here, not not these other things that you know tend to divide us. That's beautiful. Mariah, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. No, no, no. Go ahead. She's saying no, she has not read it, but she says, "I do believe in Ellen White and indeed is a prophetist of God."

Yes. Uh, praise God. Mariah, pick up The Great Controversy. You will be blessed. If you can, I think you can even read it online. You could read it online. uh read those last 10 chapters. Yeah. Um it's amazing. It's it's amazing to see how how accurate that book is regarding what is coming and what is happening right now in our world. So again to me this is God trying to wake us up right? Mhm. There is no even the people out there who are lifting a warning against this this what they see as a coming church state threat.

They don't even understand the significance. They think they do, but they don't understand where this is going. The only people on the face of the planet that understand where this is going. You all praise God. Mariah, she said, "I'm sorry. I'm so stuck on Mariah." You and Mariah having a whole conversation conversation because she said she will um she will be proclaiming this on her YouTube channel. She says, "I will proclaim you go." See, that's just wow. Yes. Wow. Wow. Mariah or put it or I can't put the chat.

Somebody put it in the chat. My email so Mariah can can email us. We want to connect. But attante at living mana.urch if one of the producers um can do that. Atante atlivana.urch and then we'll continue our discussion offline. But that's cool. Mariah definitely want to talk to you. Yeah. So, what I'm saying is the only voice on the planet right now that can actually make total sense of what is happening right now that can bring this all together. The one voice is is the Adventist church. Right. So, my email is Okay, good.

They edited it in the chat. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That one voice is the church and where's our voice? Right. You know what I'm saying? Where are we? Uh it it's it's just it's mindblowing how how silent we are and yet loud about other things but silent about this. So I believe that we're in that time, right? I believe that we're in that time that that our voice must be heard, right? We we have to unite put our focus on getting this gospel into all the world. These things are unfolding before our eyes and God just keeps giving us, you know, like like who makes a golden statue, a big golden statue of it.

It's just it's it's almost funny in a sense how man is God just giving us these signs just so obvious signs because we're because we're sleeping. It's like how obvious do I have to make this for you? And I think he's making it pretty obvious. I think he's making it pretty obvious. Oh, he is making it very obvious. Yeah. With that said, we're I think we're going to There's lots of Man, time has flown. What time? But we we still have a few more minutes. Yeah. Well, I'll just answer any questions because we This was a question and answer, guys.

We kind of flipped it out. Well, I did answer two questions, so I did my part. Yeah. And you're answering questions there. Everybody else I I'm talking to Mariah, but so is everybody else. I don't know if they've heard anything you said. Everybody's talking to Mariah in the which is fine. Like Living Mana, like love on Mariah. That's great. And uh I think they've already found her YouTube channel and Yeah. They're they're going to town. Yeah. Which is cool. Um Yeah. Okay. I'm curious. I know we were going to talk offline, but I'm curious how what Mariah, give us a brief description of what led you here.

Yeah. While we're still talking, you can put it in the chat. Yeah. um a brief description and I think this movement that we see taking place, I even saw something in in because we're here in Huntsville and uh the whole thing about the Ten Commandments being in our public school systems. Some articles came up about that just a few days ago and for our local for our local for here in here in Alabama here in Alabama. And um it's not that surprising. Yeah, it's not that surprising because didn't Al Roy Moore was from Alabama.

Roy Moore, that whole thing back then, but he didn't there wasn't that kind of momentum. Yeah, he didn't have the momentum. And and so now you got, you know, Paula White who is, you know, she's part of the N the the the the uh N movement, the whole pro we're prophets and we we've seen this and you know, God is going to bring a mighty w from different countries. Yeah. angels from the different countries and all the you got this merger that is becoming harder and harder to deny, right? And you know when I think when people say, "Oh, well, you never know this could happen.

This could come from, you know, from the atheists or the Marxists or the unbelievers or the communists." You got to understand, and this is what I'm going to be preaching. I got preaching about today. Again, when this delusion hits, there will be no atheists, there will be no communists, there will be no Marxists. Everybody is going to be converted after this new order. worship will only come from those professing Christianity, right? So that means that everyone who's going to be caught up in this would have been converted to this fake or false version of Christianity.

Right. Right. This is not atheists coming together and saying, "Hey, you know what? For the sake of the planet, let's all right." No. No. Far from it. Far from it. Do you want to hear what Mariah just Go ahead. She wrote God gave her a dream. God gave her a dream. Her dream was, and this is I'm quoting her. She said, "I used to be a Trumpup supporting Christian and then God gave me a dream that Trump pushed a woman off a tower. The Holy Spirit revealed to me that woman was the church." Wow. Definitely take my email down, Mariah.

We We want to contact you. We want to talk to you. And I'm not, you know, I don't know. I can say this then. So, this is not me saying that, you know, this this this uh administration is going to be the one. But what I am saying, right? I'm just God how I'm just quoting what she wrote. how God led her just to lead her to probably study deeper and just to come to see that what we're teaching is truth. And we're not teaching that this administration. We're just teaching necessary it's going to be.

It could be. It could be. Yeah. We don't know. But certainly the things that are being set up now are being set in place to push that woman off the ledge. Mhm. And um if I can just show you this, Mariah, Revelation 12:17, the dragon was wroth with the woman, right? And went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus, right? This the dragon the the Bible literally says that the dragon is going to attempt to destroy the woman. Yes. And that woman is the church.

Yes. Mary Anne, our prayer team is gonna pray for you. They see your prayer request in the chat. Yes. Yeah. Well, as soon as I read it, that's what I thought about. But yeah, but I guess the Holy Spirit may have shown her that and I don't know if she That's amazing. Yeah, that is amazing. That's amazing. Um, okay. So, you guys, um, I think we're gonna we're gonna go ahead and wrap this up now. Yeah, that went by really fast. Remember the sermon today's evangelism Sabbath sermon. I shared this earlier.

Let me share it again. I'm going to be speaking on the overmastering delusion that is going to unite the whole world. And the reason why this this message is going to be uh different is because with this message I've presented it before, but I've presented it using quotes from the spirit of prophecy and the Bible. This message will be strictly from the Bible. If people are unsure on how to teach us from the Bible and you've never heard this from the Bible alone, this sermon, if you're an evangelist, if you're doing evangelistic series and you want to begin to implement this aspect, which is the most major aspect.

I just can't understand how how we have missed including this in our we focus on the papacy. We focus even on apostate Protestantism but we do not we talk about spiritualism but we don't talk about the ultimate act the final yes spiritualistic stuff is happening now but we don't talk about that final thing that brings the whole world together so we're going to see that from the Bible and um again invite your people those who may not be familiar with this message um this today is for them today is for them I haven't heard your sermon but I mean it just antichrist.

Like if he's the antichrist, they I think people some people just always thought like, oh, he's just going to be I don't know. Like you have to be acting like you're the real thing. You're not going to come back like you're just trying to pretend to be him. Like you're going to come back like, "No, I'm him." Yeah. Yeah. That only makes sense. Yeah. So from the Bible. So remember Uh let me see. Let me see. Somebody's saying what time. Like we're you're in church now. So you this is this is we're ending our first service and uh there's a So just keep watching and you're going to go right into divine worship and you're not going to miss the sermon.

Yep. And we have some membership transfers um after we pray. Okay. And just remember this, you know, because some people are or at least I saw one person in the chat saying that someone that there are those who have a different view of uh of the appearing of Satan. And listen, the bottom line is you got to study to show yourself approved. And we did do that together. Yeah. We did a series on Matthew 24, right? I was like I was like I think I Matthew it's called 24. Okay. We went through the entire we did like I don't know 10 presentations just on Matthew 24 before the test and the Yeah.

Is it before? Yeah. Does Satan appear on the test or after the test is done? Um so there are people that believe differently and you know this is no it's not like well you're lost if you believe this particular thing differently right? You're Adventist and you think this way versus this way. But you got to be convicted in your own mind. Not, well, this pastor said this, this pastor said that, which one should I believe? I like both of these pastors, or this is my favorite pastor. No, you cannot judge based off of You got to judge based off of your conviction on the word of God.

Yeah. Okay. Definitely. So, I will end it there. All right. We're going to pray and then we have uh first reading. Yeah, first reading. All right. Heavenly Father, please uh just bless us, Lord. Um thank you Lord for giving us this time to to talk about current events and where we are um in earth's history. Lord help us to be uh committed Lord to your word. Um help us Lord to raise our voices on what is happening in our world in this country today. Lord please help us to speak with conviction. Help us to speak the truth.

Help us Lord. help us forgive us for our silence and Lord um please just put within us the spirit um of courage the spirit of truth Lord that we may be about your business. Thank you Lord for hearing and answering. We pray this in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right. Well, we are excited to do a first reading of a membership transfer. Just want to let you guys know that if you want to become a member of Living Mana Church, there's three ways you can do it. I talk a little bit more about this um in the service as well, but uh you this is the email that you're going to use for all three of those ways.

So, if you want to become a member, you need to write down that email that you see, patrice livinga.live. uh because you can if you're a 7th Day Adventist, you can trans if you're a member of another church in good standing, you can transfer your membership and you're going to use that email that's there on your screen. If you are a baptized Christian and you want to join the 7th Day Adventist Church, but you don't feel like you have to get rebaptized, then you can email Patrice there at living.live.

And if you want to get baptized um and you have studied uh what Adventist uh would believe from the Bible and you want to become a member, you can get baptized, I like to say, and Pastor Myers will actually come out and baptize you. So, uh if that's what you would like, you can email Patrice living.live, but we have a membership transfer and let's see here. And then um let's see. All right. So we have the first reading for Olivia Torres from Edenburgg 7day Adventist Church. And so I'm not sure where Edenberg is.

I don't know what state. But we are happy that Olivia wants to become a member of the Living Mana Church. So we're excited about that. and there will be a second reading and then you will become an official member and we will we will welcome you. Amen. All right. So, um so I'm going to share something. No, I'm not going to share it. All right. We're just going to wait. We're just going to wait. We're just going to wait. All right. We'll continue to worship with us. Don't go anywhere. You don't want to miss that sermon that's coming up.

Um and our prayer time that we have in the divine service with the Sowells and the good music that we have prepared for you as well. So stay tuned. and we'll see you in the divine worship service. There feeling that I don't belong. The comforts of this world is blinded me to the rest that I deserve. But even in my blindness, my spirit reaches out. There has to be much more to life. Here on the east side of Aahu, about a third of a mile off the shores of Koul Beach, we found a very famous island called Moiki, most commonly known as China man's hat.

I lived in Hoy all my life, but I've never taken the time to explore this tiny island. So, I'm stoked to be able to do it today. You see, one of my favorite sayings in life is this. Blessed are the curious, for they shall always have adventures. And blessed are the adventurous, for they shall always have great pictures to show and awesome stories to tell. You see, my friends, this life is full of awesome discoveries and new adventures every single day. But in order to find them, we got to be willing to get off the couch, get out of the house, and start living our lives in the real world instead of the artificial world of Hollywood movies and social media.

One person said it like this. You can't discover new oceans unless you're willing to lose sight of the shore. And that, my friends, is the truth. Those who choose to spend their lives on the shores of complacency and comfort often miss out on the oceans of adventure and the islands of experience. So, it's either you launch out or you miss out. And for me, I don't want to miss out on anything. So, today we're going to explore more as we launch out to see what's happening on China. Take me home. Take me home.

Now, this island obviously got its nickname due to its likeness to the rice hats of Asia. Now, these Asian rice hats are not the most fashionable, but they're definitely practical. And in my opinion, practical is more important than fashionable, especially on a hot Hawaiian day like today. You see, the conical shape of these hats is such that it provides a nice shade from the sun and even a small shelter from the rains. In the rice fields of Asia, it protects the farmers from getting toasted from the powerful rays of the sun.

But these hats are not only helpful in Asia. I'm finding it very useful on a hot summer day like today. As beautiful as it is, this island just doesn't have much when it comes to shade. A bunch of bushes, few coconut trees here and there. It's just like the top of an Asian rice hat. It absorbs all the heat of the afternoon sun. Jesus is the answer I'm found beyond myself. And now I know that all my hope is found in him and nothing else. You see, just as my Asian rice hat has provided shade from the hot Hawaiian sun, so too does our God cover us from the sun of trial in the heat of hardship.

The Bible says that the Lord is your keeper and your shade on your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. For he has been a stronghold to the poor and to the needy, a shelter from the storm, and a shade from the heat. Now, God doesn't stop the son of trial from shining. He did promise that life would always be cool and refreshing and easy. But he did promise to preserve us in pain, to cover us in conflict, and to shield us in sorrow.

He has pledged to us his holy word that when things begin to heat up in our lives, that he is our shade by day, our defense by night, and a shelter in the time of storm. And as long as we remain under his covering, we will be able to rise above the heat of this world and stand at the top of the mountain of victory. We will then trade our China's hats for a royal diadem, a crown of everlasting life. And then we will rise from this earthly paradise to the sweet paradise of God. Take me home. Take me Heat.

Welcome back, Living Mana Church family. We're so happy that you decided to stay with us today on this Sabbath and worship, continue to worship with us. It is so good to see all of you here. If you're just joining us today, just now you weren't dur you weren't here for our first program, please put in the chat where you are watching from. We want to say a special welcome to you. If this is your very first time visiting, please put a one in the chat so we can say an even even more extra special welcome to you.

And so we are just happy that you are here and worshiping with us today. Um, I have to say that earlier program was was really really good and it was it was being completely worked out by the Holy Spirit um, as far as how it went exactly. Uh, because we had different plans. We were just going to do regular question and answer and we did get some questions and I was able to answer some of the mental health but God took it another direction and it really was a blessing. So again, put in the chat where you're viewing from.

Just want to say a welcome to you. I see uh, Lubox, Texas. Welcome. I see a one, but I don't see the name. So, um, let's see if I can see that. Oh, got a few ones. Okay, so we have Rolando, uh, Pence, welcome. Good to see you here. Tom, uh, Fra, good to see you here as well. This is your first time. Oh, we have another one. Priscilla from New Mexico, welcome to Living Mana Church. And to all of you who are just joining us for the first time, just to want you to know that this is a 100% online 7th Day Adventist Church.

It's the first official online 7th Day Adventist Church. We're with the Northeastern Conference. And so we have programming not just I keep seeing okay as the ones are coming up, we have more ones. Barbara Edwards, welcome. Um but I just want you to know again we have programming all throughout the week. We are not just here on Sabbath. We have mental health programs on Monday and that is led by by myself. I'm a licensed marriage and family therapist and Dr. Ricardo White is my co-host and he is a psychiatrist.

We have True Health Tuesdays. On Tuesday we have two doctors um one licensed naturopathic doctor uh an MD and we have a licensed uh nutritionist as well. And so they are bringing uh the programs to you on Tuesday and giving you so much great information about your health and what you can do to make your health better. And then we have our prayer team that leads out in our power Wednesdays uh every Wednesday. And I can tell you that it's called Power Wednesday and it is very powerful. So you won't want to miss that or you might want to check it out.

And then Thursdays, our young adult uh youth pastor um he has a program on Thursdays as well. And so these are programs you're not going to want to miss. And we have a great way to remind you. And I'm going to tell you how to do that here just shortly. Looks like we had more ones than people telling us where they're Oh, no. We got some people from Madagascar. All right. Madagascar, welcome here to Living Mata Church. um from Collegedale, not too far away. Hope you're staying dry. I'm just assuming you're probably getting the rain, too, because you're just in Collegeell, Tennessee.

Um and Barbara, again, I welcomed you, but you're watching from Mississippi. That's great. Michelle from Portland, Oregon. Good to see you. Michelle, always good to see you here. Barbara from Anguila, always good to see you here. And then we have Melanie from Paris, France. Welcome, Melanie. Good to have you here uh from Paris and yeah looks like we have quite the international group today but we are an international church and so we are just happy to have each and every one of you and I want to let all of you know how you can stay connected to living mana church and for the ones those who are visiting for the first time pay very close attention to this um because this is how you're going to stay connected to living mana church and be reminded of all the things that I just mentioned that we do um and so you will get notifications when we go live for these different programs um that we are doing.

So I want to tell you on how you can sign up to get text alert alerts if you're here in America and you can do that by texting LMOC to 855207-4107. You can see it there on your screen. You can also scan the QR code. And again, that only works if you are here in the United States. If you are out of the country, which many of you are, um you need to sign up for Mighty Networks and you can see the link in our chat. And Mighty Networks is our virtual home. Like I said, um we we are 100% online church, but we do have a virtual church home and it is mighty networks and that is where you will be able to get reminders and announcements.

You will also be able to learn about all our different small groups and th those who are just visiting I want you to check mighty networks out um because there we have different small groups that you might be interested in joining and this is where we form community here at Living Managed Church because you are able to get to know people um and get to you know contact the leaders and become friends with the other people in the group and it's just it's again this is where we form community. It's a lot of fun and hopefully you choose a small group that um is something that you're interested in so that you will really love and be passionate about being a part of that group if that's what you're wanting to do.

So, just wanted to let you all know how you can be um just all caught up with everything Living Man Church is doing. That's by getting text alerts and also signing up for mighty networks. So, you can get all that information there as well. Also just want to remind you guys and for our first timers let you know that we do have LOC kids at LOC kids meets at 11:30 central time on Sabbath morning. It goes for about an hour and a half. And if you want more information about your kids getting signed up for LOCC kids, you can text kids to that 855 number that you see on your screen or you can email and the leadership there will get back to you about how your kids can get involved.

And so that is locidana.urch. That's the way that you're going to get your kids involved um in LOLC kids is using that email or texting kids to that 855 number. Want to remind you guys that Pastor Myers does have virtual office hours. But you know before that let's use that that slide on the screen. The membership. Okay. We can go to office hours. We'll do office hours and then go back to membership. So Pastor Meyers does have virtual office hours. If you're needing to speak with him, please email, schedule an appointment by emailing patrice livingmana.live.

Don't forget that email because the membership email is the same email uh that you will be emailing if you want to become a member. And I did talk about that at the end uh or when we did a train when we did the first reading for membership after Sabbath school that there are three ways that you can become a member. And if you want to transfer your membership, use that email there, patrice livinga.live. If you want to come in by profession of faith, you can use that email. And if you want to be baptized, you can use that email.

Um, and that's the way you're going to uh we're going to be able to start uh the process for you being able to join uh Living Mana Church. So, we are excited for all of you who are those who are wanting to be a part of Living Mana Church. We welcome you and are excited for you to come and be a part of this mission here at this church. Also just want to remind you guys that prayer requests I talked to you about our prayer team and our prayer team is u just willing and can't wait for you to send in your prayer request so that they can pray for you.

And if you want them to do that you can email them pray living manana.urch and you can send your request in that way. Like I was mentioning Mighty Networks, there's a prayer wall on Mighty Network. So you if you um sign up for Mighty Networks, you can put your prayer request on the prayer wall and the prayer team takes those prayer requests from the prayer wall and puts it into their system so that they can pray or you can text pray to that 855 number and the prayer team will get it and they will pray over your request.

And so there's many different ways to get your prayer request in, but I can tell you that the prayer team uh they really enjoy doing this and they are passionate about it and they love praying for you and your prayer request. You are not alone. You are not alone. Okay. want you guys to also know that if you are watching on Power of the Lamb uh YouTube page, we want you to jump over to my Living Mana YouTube page and we want you to like and subscribe there as well. We're trying to grow our uh Living Mana YouTube page and if you would do that for us, that helps us out a lot.

Once you guys Well, I want you to put a one in the chat. How many of you were there live or have watched the uh the broad the replay broadcast for True Health Tuesday this last Tuesday with Dr. Maria Humel? Did you watch that? Because I was able to watch a little bit of that and it was so good. Put a one in the chat. I mean her numbers were she had a large audience. I know some of you were there. Um definitely and it was such a blessing. Um, and so I just want to let you guys know that Maria is doing it every other week, so she won't be here this week, but I know she gave you a challenge and a lot of resources for you to do within that time.

Um, and so please, you're going to want to follow up with that, but just wanted everyone to know that she will be back in two weeks. So, not this Tuesday, but the following Tuesday. And um, there I see the ones coming up. And it was really a blessing. We're so blessed to have her uh be a part of the True Health Tuesday team, but also she is a member of Living Mana Church and see we are just so blessed to have her here with us. Want you also to know that Afterglow, so many of you love Afterglow. I know I love Afterglow and it has been on Altar Live for the first three years of living mana's existence.

It has been uh on Altar Live. Ultralive is having some issues, some um if if you're on a phone, it will, you know, do some glitches and not allow you to do all the things to enjoy the experience on Ultra Live. When you're on a computer, it definitely does better and doesn't seem to do the things that it does on a phone. But a lot of our viewers watch some of these programs on their phone because it's right in their hand. So with that said, after Glow will be meeting in two or moving I should say in two weeks it's going to officially move to Mighty Networks and so we will be giving you more information about that.

Also um Pastor Myers is planning uh some new events and things like that and you have some of you have been uh messaged in uh Mighty Network. So please check your mighty network me mighty network messages and please respond to that message. So we are just um excited about to continue to grow our afterglow uh after the sermon. It really is a blessing to see everybody's perspective and what they got from the sermons and Sabbath school. Just want to remind you guys that we do have an adult Sabbath school uh study that studies the quarterly every Friday evening from 6:30 to 8:00 p.m.

Central and that is led out from gems and that's that is the acronym for golden aers emerging into mature saint saints and they are a great group of people. So if you are wanting to to study the uh quarterly the adult Sabbath school lesson that the whole world 7th day a church studies then definitely you want to join the gym's adult Sabbath school class that is every Friday um at 6:30 to 8:00 p.m. you can participate there with them. Also just want to remind you about STAR our steps to addiction recovery.

And so that's Thursdays at 7 central time on Alter Live currently. And so you will be able to contact if you're wanting more information about the steps to addiction recovery. You can connect with Gina Brower on Mighty Networks to get more information um about that program. Want to remind you guys that we we are already going around the world as you can see. We have so many viewership from around the world. But we also want to uh make our living mana global page um impact the world with the languages of the world.

And as you know there's seven seven different languages that Pastor Meyer's sermons can be translated into. Um for those who have not seen this, just want to give you again another idea so that you can start just familiarize yourself with this uh YouTube page that and if you know people who speak Chinese, Spanish, French, um can't think of all of them right off. I know Ukrainian I can't think of all the names right now. Those are just some. But you can go through the list and see uh what we have.

If you know anyone that speaks those languages and you think it would be better for them to hear the sermon in their language because that's how they can understand it better, definitely share. But I want to give you uh just a little uh sample of what that looks like. Isn't that cool? We think that's amazing that that technology is out there and um we are able to utilize um this technology and so continue to pray over LMLC Global and you can also support LMLC Global um because we have to repurchase this package every year.

And so if you would like to continue to support um Living Mana Church uh LMLC Global going into all of the world and the languages of the world uh you could put that on your tithe envelope and and we have an editor that's dedicated to that um um who is able to um or has to translate the slides and everything into those languages. So that is the the whole package. Um but again you can support through your prayers and through your financial gifts and you can mark that on your tithes as well. Speaking of tithe and offering, it is that time uh to let you know how you can give to continue to help support Living Mana Church or start supporting Living Mana Church for the first time.

First of all, as I always say, thank you for just being a huge blessing to this church for three years. We have been here for three years and God has led us all the way. And it's because of again your faithfulness and because of God putting it upon your heart and you obeying what God is putting on your heart. So again, thank you for supporting the church. But if you would like to continue to support the church and if or start to support the church, you can virtually be able to give to uh to Living Mana Church by going to adventistgiving.org.

you will click in the right um hand corner and you will see a tithe envelope and there you can see where you can give your tithe uh which supports the north uh eastern conference and the worldwide church of 7-day adventism and then there's a place where you can give to the local church which helps us to do the things that we do here for living manage church there's also an area there on your tithe envelope where you can give to the benevolence fund which helps people who are um in need. There's also a education fund that um helps uh young people that might just need a little bit of extra funds to um for their their Christian education.

Um and you got to see two of them last week who were looking for some assistance and they're getting ready to graduate in biology, premed, and become doctors. And so, um and they're, you know, just great Christian young ladies. But there's other students out there who are just, you know, needing just a little bit of assistance. And so there's an education fund that you can give to and there's many other things on your tithe envelope. So please go check that out. If you do not want to give virtually, you can mail in a check to uh Living Mana Church.

There's the address on the screen. It's P Box 428, Owens Crossroads, Alabama 35763. and you can give that way to help support the church in all the different things that the church does. And again, we just praise God. We praise God that here it is the first Sabbath in the month of May and we are three years old because our our our celebration was in April, right? Our first sab Sabbath, excuse me, was April 9th um three years ago. And so here we are. We are three years and one month old. So we every we're thankful every I don't know this church to be honest this is the first time you know I thought about the other day I was like this was really a church plant and my husband and I we had never planted a church just from scratch you know there are other pastors who had planted churches but we were not a part of that and hadn't done that but I was like this is a church plant it's online but it's still a church plant so to see something grow from nothing to what Living Man Church is now it really is a blessing and It's a witness to us and it's a it's an encouragement to us of what God can do and it builds our faith.

So hopefully it builds yours too. But we are just so thankful for all of you for what you do for Living Mana Church. There's so many volunteers on on the team that help support uh this church. I was just this morning I heard my husband speaking to his his graphic or his slide team. Um what they do like when he preaches sermons like don't think pastor puts those together because he does not. There is a whole graphics and slide team that does that. They're amazing. Every group of of um in in this church is amazing.

Um the the our broadcast team I I should not start listing because that's g not going to be good because there's so many. But our I always talk about our prayer team, but there's just so many different uh groups of people that are such a blessing. We couldn't do this without without you guys. Like we can't do this by ourselves by no means. like we just couldn't do it. So, it's God, you and God is using us as well. And so, we are thankful. And it's you out there. It's you out there. You make this happen as well.

You definitely make this happen. You show up, you tell your friends, you share the videos. And so, it's it's everybody all hands on deck to make this happen. And so, we are just very thankful. So, I just want to give a praise, a prayer of praise and thanksgiving to God at this time. If you would please just bow your heads with me as we pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, just want to thank you for this Sabbath and the rest that Sabbath brings, Lord. No work, no bill paying, no school, none of that. We can just worship you today.

That's it. And that's such a blessing, Lord. It's not that's it. That's like the biggest blessing in life to just be able to worship you. I thank you for the Sabbath and what it brings, Lord. It's just peace and rest. And Lord, I just want to lift up those who um are hurting right now. Lord, there's so many people out there that are they're here. They're showing up for church. They're showing up to worship you, but they're hurting. And I'm asking that you will bless them. That you will bless them um in their marriage.

You will bless them if they are single in their life and the things that they are needing. That you will uh bless them if they are ill and sick. Lord, give them peace. Heal them. show them what to do, how to help take care of their body. Lead them to the right doctors, Lord. Just bless them, Lord. And for all those parents that are praying for their children, Lord, help them to just trust you because you love those kids more than they do. And so, you are doing everything in your power to save them.

And so, parents, keep praying, but we can relax. We can believe in what you are doing in our children's lives. Lord, again, I thank you for Living Mana Church and the blessing all of the viewing audience and membership is to this church and to us personally. And Lord, I just pray that you will be with Pastor Meyers that this is a he's never preached anything like what he's about to preach today. And so, I'm excited and I know everyone else, they should be excited, but I just pray that you will um give him an outpouring of your Holy Spirit uh that he will be able to share this and it will be so impactful in all of our lives in Jesus name.

[Applause] What's up everybody? We're Brotherhood Music. Massive shout out to Elevate Studios for having us here to j out this song called Open Week Eyes. We pray and hope that it blesses you guys out there as much as it blesses us. Open the eyes of my heart, Lord. Open the eyes of my heart. I want to see you. I want to see you. Open the eyes of my heart, heart. I want to see you. I want to to see you high lifted up. Shining in the light of your glory. Pour out your power and love as we sing. Holy, holy, holy to see you.

I lift it love as we sing holy, holy, holy. I want to see heart. I want to see. Lord. Just open the eyes of my see you. Oh, to see you high and lift it up. Yeah. Shining in the light of your glory. Pour out, pour out your power and holy, holy to see you high and lift it up. Oh hol, shining in the light of your holy, holy, holy. I want to you. Here at Living Mana, we bear each other's burdens. When you need support or prayer, when you're feeling discouraged or alone or anxious, you don't have to face life struggles alone.

Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in our time of need. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. Amen. Greetings saints of the most high God and welcome to another edition of Living Mana's prayer and praise time. Hallelujah saints as always. I'm here with my lovely Brian Amra you know and she was just telling me this morning you know what since we kind of started with the new studio. She's like I don't feel like we're so close anymore.

She feels like she's way over there. I don't know. I'm just used to shouldertoshoulder I guess. Well, uh, well, prayer brings us together, doesn't it, saints? Bring prayer brings us together. And listen, um, again, I wanted to thank the Living Man of Tech team one more time, Brother Josh, Brother Colin, Brother Gavin, and our beloved Sister Patrice, who we gave a shout out to last week, but she wasn't in the studio, but she's in the studio live this week at the top of the roll call. Sister Patrice, we love you.

Thank God for you. so precious to us and uh looking forward to seeing you and chopping it up with you. And again, saints, a few more shout outs. Yeah. Uh there was somebody I wanted to Oh, this you know what blessing says to scoot over. Okay. Okay. We got Okay. So, so look, um this morning I had opportunity to to chat with Sister Charlotte really quickly and I see you there in the chat. Sister Charlotte doing your thing. Sister Charlotte is one of our newest prayer warriors. Y'all already know she's family member.

She's living in a family, but she is now official uh LMOC war. And so we're thank God for her. We are also thanking God for Sister Denise Richardson who is a ball of fire, a blessing to us. Sister Sharon Fay, our Loc news correspondent on the scene with the good news. Amen. And Sharon gave an amazing testimony on Power Wednesday last week. Look at here. You all should have heard that testimony. Actually, we have it recorded, but uh what a testimony she gave about staying on the boat, staying in the in in on on the ship of Z.

She welcome back home. It was I think it was in it was the theme was hope. Beautiful stuff, Sister Sharon. We're glad to have you on the team. Also, Sister Stacy Ferguson is our one of our newest special ops prayer warriors. So, welcome to them. Welcome to the new prayer warriors. God is sending us all the help we need. And as first lady said, you know, all of these ministries and teams you see, you see Amber and I sit here. But look, we're held up by one of the most amazing group of servants and prayer warriors and warriors and they do a great work behind the scenes.

Sister Angela who we love bombed this week, you know, with a surprise love appreciation party we had for her. God has sent help now to fortify her. She was doing so much of the she was the the administrative arm of the prayer ministry, but now God has sent some beautiful help to her. Her and sister Ayana now have some uh lovely sisters who will be there helping them. So, a lot of the administrative work now, you know, takes some pressure off of her shoulders and uh we thank God for it. and also our special ops team is going to start growing and bursting at the seams especially when we begin to implement some of the plans that pastor have and some of the vision he has to grow the prayer team and to grow the body of Christ here at Living Mana.

So with all of that, thank y'all saints. Thank you for your prayers. And it's not just the prayer warriors. The members of this church are praying. I'm looking in this chat this morning and I'm seeing brother Kashif standing strong in the gap. Sister Miracella, Sister Ayana, Sister uh Blessing, and all of you in the chat. Thank you so much. Living men of prayer warriors, Elder Plant, I see him. He's standing up there, too. Everybody just circling the wagons uh and and loving on one another the way Jesus would have us do it.

We thank God for it. Um, one other thing I wanted to make sure we say special prayers for our beloved brother Danny and sister Jackal and Clark. They're on vacation enjoying some good uh RNR. Much deserved vacation. They do so much for this church. Absolutely. Y'all know they do the Revelation Bible study. Jackie is cooking up something healthy and good in the kitchen and every week. And they're on special ops teams. They are prayer leaders. They are facilitators and hosts for Power Wednesday. I mean, just on and on and on.

What a blessing they are ever since they've been here. So, we are thankful for them. And we're I was chatting with Jackie a little bit this morning that we're they're they're wanting to get some supernatural uh uh refreshing from the Lord. So, lift them up in prayer, saints. Amen. Amen. Amen. Um uh we're seeing your prayer request in the chat. Sister Teresa had God bless you. We will continue to pray for you and the Hatton family. I saw you there. I saw you this week at at uh mental health Monday.

You were right there enjoying it right along with us and want to encourage all y'all come on out saints and be blessed throughout the week as first lady has announced. Sister Sakara, love you so much. See you there. Sister Emma Jean, I shout it out to you this morning. AR, enough love go around for everybody. Thank you for your prayer request. We'll read some of that off in just a moment. But um I believe that's just about it for today. Oh, I want you know what? First lady's t-shirt that stuck with me.

Seek first. Uh in the huddle this morning, Sister Shaunie was teaching us about uh praising the Lord first and and not focusing on the negativity. That's what the enemy is trying to do. get us to focus on all that negativity, but you know, it takes some discipline and some practice, but learn to seek him first and learn to turn to him first before we respond, before we react. I like that. It's a good reminder for me. That is a great reminder for everybody. Amen. It's so true. You know, I have to capture my thoughts and give them to the Lord all the time.

Amen. That's all of us, sweetheart. And uh you know I was telling the the the prayer warriors in the huddle uh you were looking at me you really are looking at a miracle saints because one time all I knew was negativity and darkness and and a bunch of chains and a bunch of uh habits and addictions and things that I use to cope with life. And when I decided I want when the Lord touched my heart and woke me up from the sleep of death and and and let me know I needed Jesus and that he was there for me.

I realized I didn't have any strength within and of myself to get over these habits and addictions and way of life. So God be to transform and renew my mind. You hear the pastor talking about neuroplasticity. God has fearfully and wonderfully created us that we can be transformed and we can be changed. But we got to cooperate with him. So I'm really thankful for the change and the miracle change in my own life. He did it for me saints. He can do it for you. So, sweetheart, what what what are we reporting to today about God and his goodness and all he's been doing in the lives of the people?

All right. Well, we see all of your greetings in the chat. First off, we're just going to do uh, you know, all round roll call. So, thank you so much everyone for your kind messages to us. And Eddie, I see you there. God bless you. Oh, you said we're gonna we're gonna do an all all around. Okay, so we're so many. He's telling me don't get specific, but hey everybody. Hey Nicole, you know. Uh oh, here we go. First lady says, "I'm not going to start calling out these groups cuz it it's it's so powerful.

It pulls you in." You see why it's going to take eternity fellowshipping and worshiping in heaven because it's going to take forever to love on everybody like this right here. Don't you want to be there, saints? Look, I want to be there. Trevor, you gonna be there, brother? God can do it. He's able to do it, brother. Amen. Amen. Hey, Ayana. Okay. Well, I guess we're kind of doing this verse and vision. Hello. Hello, Ayanna. Sister Emily, Nicole, hallelujah, Barbara, my brother Leon, Jamie, hallelujah.

Amen. Sister Regina, it's spiritual. I see you there. Hallelujah. All right. Hello, everybody. Praying for you. It's spiritual. We see your message in the chat. Praying for you, beloved. Okay. So, before I get into the praise reports, just a reminder that if you would like to submit your prayer requests and praise reports, you can send an email to pray living mana.urch. You can also post on the mighty networks prayer wall. Um, we are still always looking for people to join our prayer team and special ops teams.

We have an overflow of people who need prayer um and who have requested uh special ops prayer teams to for themselves or their loved ones. So um if you would like to join the prayer team, join a special ops team under the prayer team umbrella, please send an email to praymanana.urch. If you need a special ops team for yourself or a loved one, please send an email to spec ops. That's s pops livingmana.urch. If you would like to join the women's ministry on mighty networks, please send an email to women livinga.urch.

And finally, if you would like to join the men's ministry, please send an email to sevenloaves. That's s e ven l o a ve livingmana.urch. I believe a lot of that is going up in the chat. Amen. Amen. All right. First up from Artell Peters. I want to thank the prayer team for the acknowledgement of my request in prayer to pass my driver's license road exam. It was the second attempt within two months that the road test was not made available for me. I gave praise for what and why. I do not know the reason, but God does.

And I have comfort in his knowledge and grace that is sufficient for me. Artell, I just want to tell you that I appreciate your attitude of praise through something that can be extremely frustrating. So, thank you for that refreshing praise. Um, Amen. And we do pray that you will be able to take your road exam soon. Um, but you are correct. God knows what, why, and how. Amen. Amen. From Francis Grant, this is her original prayer request. Please pray for Dominique, a 10year-old who had a terrible fall and he is in a coma.

Update and a praise report. Prayer warriors update on Dominique. He is not out of the woods, but he is beginning to have some responses. To God be the glory. Please continue to lift him up in prayer that the Lord may fully restore him to health. From Ayanna Tobias praise report. I got an email from my job saying that I am no longer acting in the position that I'm in right now. I got confirmed in that position. Glory to God. Praise God. We are so happy for you. Yes. from Gerald Best. Thanking God.

An elder at my church in Maryland, Jerome Doo Good was diagnosed with cancer a few months ago. This past Sabbath, his daughter came inside the church where I was standing and said, "My dad is cancerree. Praise God." All praises to God and thanks for the prayers that went up for Elder Jerome from Annette Rivas. And this is the final praise report of this session. Happy Sabbath family. I want to thank you all for praying over my court on Thursday. I submitted my answers to the court and they accepted them.

Praise God. I have court next month to resolve the case, praying that God may allow the judge to see the unfairness of the case and rule in my favor or even better have the situation resolved without having to go to court again. May God's will be done. We will be continuing to pray for that, Annette. But we praise God that your answers were accepted. So, Amen. Come on, somebody. Yeah, we love your praise for us. Please continue to send your praise reports in. I truly believe that it gives people hope, faith, encouragement, and positivity seeing how the Lord works through our lives and our prayers.

Yes, it does. And and what would prayer be without praise? We got to tell it what God has done. Amen. And and how good he is. It's not a cliche to say, you know, he he's a doctor in the hospital room. He's a lawyer in the courtroom. A friend that stickketh closer than a brother, a rock in a weary land, water when you're thirsty, shelter in a time of storm. Come on, somebody. We We love praising God that way because that's exactly who and what he is. Hasn't he done something good for you? Send it in.

Let's talk about it, y'all. Come on. That's right. Praise him. I see you, saints. See, we got some folk in here. I already know we got some folk I I can't wait to meet y'all in when we have the praise session because see we got some folk here who who just looking for an excuse to have a praise party. Amen. Amen. Amen. We got to give him praise saints because listen, we are the church militant and we're about to be up against a whole lot of stuff in this world when the whole world's a raid against us.

But guess what? We can't let them steal our praise, saints. Amen. We can't let him steal our joy. We got to keep on praising him anyhow. And so we're getting ready to go to the to the throne of grace one more time. Hallelujah. Sister Anetta Carr, I see you there. And um you know, we talk about these prayer warriors. Today we're going to be uh our special guest is one of the most beautiful sisters I've ever met. She's so strong and such a a a a source of support for this prayer team, for Pastor Antante, for me and Amra.

We love this sister so much and she's gonna come. But before she does, I want us gonna read off a few prayer requests because she's going to just lead us in prayer. But I want to mention some of your prayer requests before we bring my big sister on. Amen. I see you, brother Keith. I see you there. That's for a praise party. Hallelujah. And so Lord, we we are seeking you for something to praise about. So listen, I want to just read off a few of these prayer uh requests, but I want to remind you after listening to pastor speak during Sabbath school.

I was reminded of a prayer request I wrote in the back of one of my old Bibles from prison. I still have it here. I just had to cut it out and stick it in here, but it says, "Father Yahweh, make me a voice in the earth." Oh. When I Yeah. When I wrote this in the back of that Bible, I was in prison. When I wrote that prayer request in there, shortly after that, God made me a seven-day adventist and gave me something to tell the people about. I saw you, Brother Rowan. I saw your prayer request in the chat earlier.

You says, "I'm still not sure of what to tell them." God will make you a voice. And that's not just for you, Brother Johnson. That's for others who are watching. God will give you something to tell, a story to tell, a message to share. He will take what's going on in your life and relate it personally to what we're learning in prophecy. This is the message God has given us. You are the message. We are the message. Study to show yourself approved and watch that word come alive. I love what brother Kirk put in the men's chat a little while ago.

As we begin to study, we really want to know the truth. We begin to study. That thing will just open up to us. God will open those divine truths up to us. I don't mean to start preaching here, but I just want to encourage you. Let us become a voice and not be quiet. Let's not be silent. We don't have to be silent. We don't have to be silent, church. And so I'm praying for me, God, revive my voice and for the 7th Day Adventist Church, all Adventists, all even non-Adventists. God, give them a word to speak because uh it won't be long once you start studying.

You will become one. I can assure you that this is the truth. Also, we want to pray for uh um Mary Lynn. She wants to be delivered from anxiety attacks. Uh, Brother Ronin, we just mentioned your prayer request. Sister Jenny Edward is asking us to remember Dion Sears, who's on a ventilator in the hospital. Nicole is asking for prayer for her friend Sonia. It's an urgent prayer request that just came in. We don't know the details, but we know God does. Sister Deborah Hailing has an unspoken request.

We're praying for you. Sister Katie, God bless you. Love you. Happy Sabbath. We're praying for a sister of a family friend, right, whose husband came in and found her face down and unconscious. She had a pulmonary embolism and she's on a ventilator. So, we're praying for her. Uh, AR, we saw your message in the chat. You had a terrible flare up of eczema and um uh it was a dermatitis skin flare up that lasted for several weeks. And you said that you're you're not a member and you kind of feel guilty about asking for prayer.

Do not never feel guilty. Our God has enough love to go around and so we are honored and privileged to be able to pray for you and serve you, my sister. Sister Lisa Marie, our sister, she's at work today and she's asking us to keep her in prayer. We are doing that. Uh Sister Esther Lita White, we love you. Uh you're dealing with some hip and knee pain. We're praying the Lord to touch and heal that today as Sister Pauline prays for you. Sister Leela, we're Sister Laya Peterson, we're still praying for you and Wes.

Praying that Wes, he's on his third denial, but God will make a way and open the door for him to get that medication. Sister Laya, just hold on. Hold on. Keep trusting in Jesus. Amen. I pray that you wake up in the middle of the night all pain gone and don't need their medication. Uh Sister Ava Monti, we're praying for you uh that you uh uh will be kind and loving and humble. Amen. All of us need that. Sister praying for your five children to find the Lord. That your husband will lead as God leads.

that your mom's vision would remain and that your sister will find the Lord. We're praying for you. Praying for you, mom, sister. Sister Regina B, we're praying for your niece Madison's that they will discover what's going on with her hands. There's some issues there with her hands. So, we're praying about that. Um, Michael uh, we're praying for Gabriel Pierce who's, uh, now recovering from postsurgery, but he's still at NYU hospital. So, we're praying the Lord will heal and touch him. And as you know, we lost uh Sister Ginger entered into her arrest uh this week.

And so we're praying for her family and particularly brother Don who's grieving over the loss of dear Ginger. And so thank you, Sister Charlotte, for reminding us of her. And thank you, Sister Charlotte. It was because of you that I got the opportunity to meet Sister Ginger. And so uh such a sweetheart. And uh we thank God for her life and the memory of her. Brother Leon is asking us to remember his sister Dean in Miami, Florida. She had hip surgery and after that hip surgery, she developed an infection.

So, we'll be keeping all those prayer requests and other prayer requests that we see going up in the chat. Listen, we are always pressed and wanting to cover all the prayer requests, but there's just not enough time. But because of that need and that desire, uh, pastor has come up with some wonderful ideas of some wonderful ministries that we're going to be doing. want to ask you to keep it in prayer that about our new uh global prayer channel that we're going to be starting up and uh our living manner prayer podcast.

So, we're working on some heavy stuff and we thank God for it. God, get behind us and bless us and touch it that we might be able to serve you and get this word out and make the make the truth known. And just know too, if we were not able to share your praise report live here, we have our prayer warriors in the chat. They collect all of your prayer requests. They are prayed throughout the week and they will pray with you live on the chat too. So, amen. Thank you. And continue to put your praise or I'm sorry, well, your praise reports as well, but your prayer requests in the chat and they will collect those.

And in fact, the sister that's coming now to lead us in intercessory prayer, her and her team, I her and sister Christina, sister Christina is so such a beautiful saint. They work together and they disseminate all the prayer requests throughout the prayer warriors uh throughout the week and each of us get you know a list of prayer request to pray over all week and it is this sister who's coming right now sister Pauline Shimmo goodine is responsible for that amongst other duties and responsibilities in the prayer ministry but she gonna come and lead us to the altar.

Come on and let him use you sister. Hallelujah. Hello Pauline. Sister Pauline, you better come on off mute now. Oh, we can't hear you. Happy Sabbath. You hear me now? Sabbath. There she is. Amen. Yeah. I'm sitting up here looking all angelical today. All with my wife. So, you know, it's something. Yes, you do. Just something about Pauline. Terry and I like to call Pauline special agent Pauline because she knows how to ask all the great questions. Yes. Yes, she does. And thank y'all for that. But before I before I pray, uh the Holy Spirit put this scripture on my heart.

So it's first Corinthians 13. We all know it. We all know it. Amen. Father God, the words my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in your sight. Oh Lord, our strength and our redeemer. Amen. Okay. Love the though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not love, I am becoming as a sounding brass or a tinkling symbol. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing.

And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not love, it profited me nothing. Love suffers long and it is kind. Love envious not. Love walters not. It is not puffed up. Does not behave itself unseemly. Seek not his own. It is not easily provoked. Thinketh no evil. Rejoices not in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth. Beth all things, believeth all things, hope all things, endureth all things. Love never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail.

Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophesize in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child, I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know even so also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, and love.

These three, but the greatest of these is love. Amen. Amen. Praise God. And um Sister White also, she told us that we need to be reading this chapter every day. Every day. Amen. Because we going to need that love to stay together to to fight this this good fight that Jesus has given us the strength to do it. Do not think that y'all don't have strength. This right here, here's your strength. Here is your strength. Start reading it. Start using it. Start saying it. start believing it and then spread it to others because that is what it's all about love.

And if you can't love and you and Ellen White said it would bring us comfort and strength but I'm going to add one more thing this is not from Ellen White this is for me give us forgiveness the ability to forgive that is holding so many of us back from that true love that Christ want us to have in our hearts. So, praise God for that. And if you having trouble with that, with that love and that forgiveness in your heart, look to the cross. Look to Jesus. Okay? He has forgiven us cuz we put him on that cross.

We our sins. He died for us. So, how dare that we do not forgive one another. So, let's remember this. And now I know my father is waiting for us to go to the throne with with these prayer requests, waiting happily, anxiously. So let us bow our heads and go to our father in prayer. Father God, Father God, Lord Jesus, Holy Spirit, what a wonderful All your Sabbaths are wonderful. Every last one of them. Father God, we thank you that we are even alive today. We are alive in our right frame of mind.

We are here rejoicing. We just letting go everything, Father God. And we just at your feet. We are at your feet, Lord. Just praising your name and thanking you for everything you have done. We ask you, Lord Jesus, to please clean us up from the many sins we have committed. Even today, somehow we desecrated your Sabbath today in word, thought, and deed. But we thank you that you have forgiven us. You love us. Continue, Father God, to answer our prayers. Because if we don't confess our sins, you will not answer.

You will not even hear. But we trust you, Lord. We trust you with all our hearts that you will do what you said that you would do for us, Lord. Lord, some of us are just having so many so much time with this so much trouble just believing in you. But Lord, we thank you. We thank you that you are there. You are before the father. You are holding up your hands, your nail scarred hands. You are pleading for us, Lord. Each person that is here today, Lord, in your presence, you are talking to the father and begging for us to be forgiven of our sins.

Now that we know that we are, Lord, we thank you because we believe you. You do not lie. You said that if you confess, we confess our sins, you are faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Lord, now we could lift up the many prayer requests that went up. You you heard them all. You know them all, Lord. There's so many that is suffering from sickness, different ailments, Father God. But you are the greatest physician. You can heal, Father God. But first of all, Father, we want you to heal our hearts.

We want you to heal that. We want you to just take away everything that we are doing, Father God. Sometimes it's because we what we do. That's why you have given us living mana church Lord with health messages and and everything that we need. But Father God, we know that you will heal all the people who is asking for healings, Lord, from the top of their heads to the soles of their feet. Father God, you know some people are struggling financially, Father God. And we know, Father God, that you own everything.

Everything is yours, Lord. Just help us, Lord, also to pay a faithful tithe and offering because you promise in your word that that that you told us to come and and try you and see will you not pour out our blessings upon us, Lord. That is something that we also need to look at father god within ourself. What are we not doing? But father god we know that you you love us and you want us to understand that you are more than willing more than able. You want to answer all these prayers Lord and we know that you will father God.

We lift up our families father God. So many of us want our family members to be saved, Lord. And Father God, you died. You died for us, Lord Jesus. You shed your blood for us. And you want nothing more than for everybody to be saved. So, Father God, we going to just keep praising you and keep thanking you that our families will be saved. Help us to be good and faithful examples to them. Father God, help us to live our lives, Lord, like you. Help us to love. Help us to continue to love one another.

Help us to forgive one another. And Lord, we know marriages are also being tested, Lord. Father God, you said that when two or three are gathered in your name that you are there. Father, just help them to just turn to you. Help them to read the um the the scriptures together. Help them to study. Help them to come together as a family, Lord, and just lift your holy and magnificent name up, Lord. Father God, these are trying times and we are all going through something. But, Father God, thank you so much for helping us to stay together, bind us together through the power of love and to trust you through everything, oh Lord.

We know all these prayers will be answered in the fullness of your time. Help us not to give up. Help us to uh stay strong. Help us to believe. Help us not to be negative, talk negatively always, Lord. You said through it all. We are to trust you and believe in you and praise through everything in our lives. And Father God, now we're going going to lift up your man, servant, Pastor Myers. Father God, what a man of God that he is. We thank you, Father God, for pouring your Holy Spirit within him.

Thank you so much, Lord, that the that the blessings that come out of his mouth is from you and that we will all give us all understanding. Give us all listening ears to listen closely to what the spirit is going to um say to us through Pastor Meyers. So, we thank you so much, Lord. Thank you so much for hearing and answering this prayer. And anything that we fail to ask, Lord, please fail not to grant in Jesus' name. Praise the Lord. M God and God alone created all these things we call our own.

From the mighty to the small,