Good afternoon. Hello everyone and welcome back to True Health Tuesday. My name is Maria Jose Hmel and uh I am very glad and happy to be back with you for another true health Tuesday. And uh as you can see from today's um title for today's presentation, we are going to be talking about setting effective goals and increasing self-control because we just finished a cycle of presentations on diabetes and all the other complications that are associated with diabetes and insulin resistance. So we talked about all these different things and um uh complications and conditions and the different things that are related to lifestyle that we need to implement in our lives.

So when I do the uh when I used to do the seminar on diabetes, I used to incorporate this presentation as part of the seminar because we could have all the knowledge in our head about what to do. But sometimes we have all the knowledge in our head and we still have a hard time doing what we know how to do. Uh so sometimes it's very important to talk about how to do it. Not just what to do, but now how to implement these changes. So that's what we're going to talk about today. Before we start, we're going to go ahead and have a word of prayer.

So let's pray. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for another beautiful day and another opportunity to have True Health Tuesday. And we ask you to be present in today's presentation and the technology. We ask you to uh help us so that everything will go well with the technology. And we ask you to also bless everyone who will connect today. Uh we ask that you send your Holy Spirit to not only uh be with me so that it is not my words but yours but also to bless everyone who will hear this presentation that you will impress their hearts as well so that uh they your spirit will help them uh to implement everything that will be said and that they will also spread this word and share it with others in Jesus name we pray.

Amen. All right. So, we're going to go ahead and start it because this is a very important concept. You know, self-control is part of the fruit of the Holy Spirit, as you know. So, we're going to talk about how to increase self-control. But again, as I always say, this is only going to be educational. Nothing that I will say will be meant to be treatment or medical advice. So I always start with that. This is very important to make sure that we talk about this. This is not we're not going to talk about diabetes today.

So this is less going to be less medical that previous presentation. So that's a good thing. Uh but I also want to make sure that I include my spiritual disclaimer as well. Uh everything that I say I always try to as I've said before. So this might be repetition for some of you, but for some of you that are watching maybe for the first time, I always try to make sure that my presentations go along with Isaiah 8:20, which says to the law and the testimony. So I always try to present things that are according to the law and the testimony as Isaiah 8:20 says, which I interpret that to mean the Bible and the spirit of prophecy as an Adventist, which I am a Seventh Day Adventist.

I interpret the uh law and the testimony to mean the Bible and the spirit of prophecy. uh and I recommend that we all are knowledgeable of what the the Bible and the spirit of prophecy talk about in regards to health. The other thing that I also want to make sure is that my presentations have a solid scientific evidence or base. And as you can see from the graphic that you're looking at right now on the screen, to me, the lowest type of scientific evidence is expert opinion or what people just say.

Um whether it's on social media or the internet presentations even so call experts make sure that when you hear other people talk about health and uh you know whatever presentations people do make sure that they have solid scientific evidence so that we have credibility when we share information to other people who might not be Christians. So I would recommend that when you share information especially to non-Christians that you are presenting things that have solid scientific evidence as well. And so when I give presentations I always try to present uh like studies and that are good quality studies.

And you can see right here from the graphic that the best quality studies are metaanalysis and systematic reviews. Meaning these are studies that are compilations of other good quality studies hopefully and the good quality studies are usually the randomized control trials. Uh these are usually the best quality studies. But when it comes to nutrition sometimes you have to have different kinds of studies. So either randomized control sty trials along with other types of trials, epidemiological uh studies that could be cohort studies uh and other types of studies.

So when you have a lot of different studies together, then you put together things such as metaanalysis and systematic reviews and then you have good quality data. That's why they're at the top of the pyramid. And then if you share that with people who might not be believers, then you're giving yourself more credibility. Uh and I think that could make that can distinguish us. And I think Adventist we have good uh I think we have very good status. Uh I think we have uh in the world people look at us differently from other maybe denominations because we have things such as Lomal Linda um and uh people look at us differently.

We have uh maybe we're part of the blue zones and we have you know uh this medical center down in Luminda and we are well known for these things. We have the Adventist health studies and we have things like that. So I think we could continue to distinguish ourselves because we have the health message too. There aren't a lot of denominations that have this. So we could continue to distinguish ourselves with to to differentiate ourselves as long as we have these um good quality information, good quality health message.

Anyway, I digress. We can then go ahead and continue uh to present. I want to go ahead and present why I believe in good scientific knowledge because it says right here I bas you know I put my my trust in the spirit of prophecy and it says right here in Christian education a knowledge of science of all kinds is power and it is in the purpose of God that advanced science shall be taught in our schools as a preparation for the work that is to precede the closing scenes of earth's history. I've read this many times, but some of you might be watching for the first time.

So closely is health related to our happiness that we cannot have the latter without the former. A practical knowledge of science of the human life is necessary in order to glorify God in our bodies. Now remember that glorifying God in our bodies is part of the first angel's message. So this is very very relevant for these times. All right. So we are ready to start our message for today. Now we have said a lot of things in the last previous presentations and uh when we talk about health, why is it that sometimes we really really know that we need to eat healthy foods, we need to do better, we need to you know control ourselves and eat a healthy diet.

But why is it so hard sometimes? Why is it that we think we know what we need to do and we seem to not be able to do the right thing? Well, I want to read to you a few quotes. By the way, I want to say hi to Andrea from New Brunswick, Canada. Hi, Andrea. Thank you for um thank you for joining us from Canada. and hi to all our friends from any country that you're joining us. Thank you for joining us. Um, thank you for joining True Health Tuesdays. Anyway, I really wanted to share with wanted to share with you a few quotes that I think are super important.

This is from councils on diet and foods. And look at these interesting quotations. Okay? Uh quotes from these from this book. One of the strongest temptations strongest temptations that man has to meet is upon the point of appetite. One of the strongest temptations that man has to meet is upon I would say the strongest nowadays, but you know, I don't know if you you agree with me on that, but I think it's the strongest nowadays. Anyway, the second one says the following. Satan is constantly on the alert to bring the race, the human race fully under his control, his strongest holen man is through the Oh, here it is.

See the his strongest strongest hold on man is through the appetite and he seeks to stimulate in every possible way. Boy, it seems like she was looking into the future, doesn't it? It almost seems like she was looking into the future and able to predict what was going to happen in the 21st century. Even starting in the 20th century, able to see what TV, social media, you today you walk into the pharmacy, it's not like just medications in there. You walk into uh a gas station, it's not just gas in there.

We are constantly bombarded by stimulation of our appetite. Yes or no? Yes or no? He is constantly trying to stimulate the appetite, trying to control us through the appetite. That is the strongest hold on man. Yes or no? Next one. The controlling power of appetite will prove the ruin of thousands. When if they had conquered on this point, they would have the moral power to gain the victory over every other temptation of Satan if they had just been able to conquer on this p on this one thing. That's how important this is.

This one thing, this one thing you can call it different names. Willpower, self-control, determination. It is so difficult. So difficult to have it. When I used to work at a community clinic as a nutritionist, as a clinical nutritionist, I would have children as young as 10. I think I've shared this with you many times probably uh ped pediatrician you know I used to work with adults obviously with chronic diseases diabetes high blood pressure um high cholesterol these things are typical of adults type two uh diabetes it used to be called adult onset diabetes now it's no longer called adult onset diabetes now It's called type two because now even children develop type two.

So it's now called just type two. Now not no longer called adult onset diabetes. Well when I used to work there at a clinic I had children uh sent to me with type two diabetes already diagnosed by the way but also high cholesterol, high blood pressure, fatty liver. When I was a young child, I don't know how many of you might be around my age. Now I'm gonna have to say how old I am. Uh, you know, past 50s, let's say, middle-aged. How many of you had you classmates that had high blood pressure, high cholesterol, type two diabetes, and I had the parents with the children and we would talk about the diet, of course, you know, I would go, you know, over the questionnaire typical that we had to do to for our recall or whatever other questionnaire, you know, trying to figure out, well, you know, what what are they eating?

And most of the time the parents already knew what the child should be eating. Yet it's not it's not like we don't know. Most people already have a concept at least of what we should be eating more vegetables. It's not a mystery to most people. Uh we probably shouldn't be eating uh what you're looking at on the screen. Junk food is called junk food for a reason, right? Most people already know fast food is not great, right? But I mean sometimes people would give me excuses, right? uh like well okay so I would ask things like um you know you know the the child for instance had soda or something and they would and the parents would say well you know I have the soda in the fridge because well why would I serve the visitors when they come home if I don't have the Coca-Cola or whatever in the fridge what why what would I serve my visitors?

Do we really need to serve visitors sodas when they come to visit us or you know I have such a physical work you know I do a lot of physical you know work at my you know their job is very very physical maybe construction or something so I need to drink soda you know so I can keep up with my work do you do you really you know things like that so sometimes I' I'd hear uh excuses I would say excuses Or they would say, "I hide the chips all the way up above the fridge." Literally, I hide them. And you know, little Johnny, I'm just saying, you know, I'm making up names here.

Little Johnny goes up, cry, climbs up all the way up and still gets the chips. What would you say if you were Why do you have the ch Why do you even buy them? These foods are literally like drugs. We're going to talk about this. I'm very I am very convinced that I'm going to talk about food addictions two weeks from now. The next presentation is going to be about food addictions because these foods Yes, Tyra. Exactly. See, you were reading my mind, Tyra. Thank you. These foods are literally drugs.

How can you hide them? They're going to go get them. You can't just buy them and hide them, you know, that's not going to work. So yes, so most people literally know what they need to do, but sometimes we don't do it. So let me show you another example of this point. So I think I've mentioned before that, in fact, I've shown you this very um study in the past. This is from the 1990s, early 1990s. Dr. Dean Ornish who became very famous for this very reason was one of the first who showed with research that coronary heart disease was actually reversible.

Prior to that, if you had coronary heart disease, your doctor would say, "Well, this is not curable. You're going to have it for the rest of your life. We're going to give you medication to control and hopefully, you know, you won't die immediately. You know, we'll try to keep you alive for a while, you know, with medication or whatever. We'll do some uh intervention, some surgery, blah blah blah. All right. But in the early 1990s, after some years of doing this lifestyle, intensive lifestyle changes, as you can see, that was an intervention.

That was the study that he did. And so basically they put people on this lifestyle program and they showed that the plaque what I'm talking about is this cholesterol plaque that starts to accumulate inside the arteries. That's what starts to block the arteries. That's what causes eventually the heart attacks. Right? So if the artery is blocked if your coronary arteries block get blocked obstructed that's what will cause the heart attack. Well, if you change your diet when this intervention was more than diet, they put people on an exercise program, stress management, quit smoking, all these things.

Stress management too, by the way. So, all these things eventually what they saw, and I'll show you the picture actually. Here's the picture. What you see right here on the screen before and after. Notice in between the yellow lines, you see that's the plaque. Basically this is a a picture of the artery and uh when you see it between the yellow is the plaque and before it's thicker and after you see a reduction of the plaque. this when this was published. All right. Wow. It's a revolution in cardiology because wow this is the first cause of death number one cause of death in the country.

Now back in the 90s it wasn't the numbers we have today. Today is almost 700,000. I would say close to if not already at 700,000. pretty darn close to 700,000 people a year. Every single year die of this one cost, heart disease every year. Every year, two years, 1,400 three year, you know, 2 million after three years. I mean, every single year. And so when this came out, wow. Wow. Because up until that time, incurable. No cure for this. And all of a sudden, what? We can reverse this. Are you serious?

This is insane. So, Dr. Nedley, I remember hearing this a presentation. Dr. Neil Nedley he said he went to one of these conferences medical conference the presentation where the where these results were given and it was just wow everybody was like I can't believe it wow and uh he thought to himself Dr. Netley he says in one of his presentations I remember hearing this and he says wow this is amazing this is 1992 early 90s and he thinks to himself in 25 years nobody will have a heart attack 25 years I mean that's a lot of time if you think about it but that's how long it takes for research to trickle down into medical practice 25 years no one will die of a heart attack.

We have the cure. 1992. More than 25, right? So, nobody has a heart attack now, right? Nobody. No one. No heart attacks. They're gone forever. Oh, wait. They are heart attacks and heart disease is first is still the first cause of of death in this country. Why? We already have the cure. By the way, that's not even the only study that found it. The previous study was intense lifestyle. This one from Dr. Caldwell Eselstein was just the diet. No exercise, no stress management, no stop smoking, nothing.

The only thing they did was the diet. And you can see right there, first line, abstract purpose, plantsbased nutrition. That's it. The only thing they put they did was put people on a plant-based diet. That's it. And this is what they found. Well, figure one shows profusion, better, you know, better blood flow through the heart. That's great. Figure two, reversal of coronary artery disease. You can even read the caption of that figure. Okay. Figure two. Coronary angography reveals a diseased distal left anterior descending artery.

the widowmaker. And you can see how thin that artery looks. It's because it's very obstructed. It says before, I labeled it. It's picture A before. Very thin. It's because it's very obstructed. Okay. Following 32 months of a plant-based nutritional intervention without cholesterol lowering medication. By the way, no medication. What? Only the diet. Following 32 months of plant-based nutritional intervention without cholesterol-lowering medication. Please read it. The Because I'm not lying. You can see it with your own eyes.

Okay? The artery regained its normal configuration. Are you looking? Are you seeing what I'm seeing? Cuz you can also see with your eyes the after. Compare before and after. The artery looks 100% like a baby's artery. It's amazing. It's unbelievable. It's amazing. So, what we can see here is the cure, you guys. A plant-based diet. Nobody should be dying from a heart attack anymore. So, why are people dying from heart attacks then? So, there is a psychologist you guys psychologist not cardiologist.

very famous. His name is Roy Biommeister. He is the most cited psychologist in the country from the University of Florida. And he says the following very interesting thing. He says, okay, he says, lack of self-control is the number one cause of heart I thought it was a diet. I thought it was lack of self-control. disease. Now, that's his specialty, by the way. He studies willpower. In fact, you can look up his name, Google it. He's written books. I think the title of his one of his most famous book is in fact willpower.

Lack of self-control is the number one cause of heart disease. Why? Because we already have a cure. cure, but we're not doing it. So, if you already know what to do and you don't do it, it's no longer a physical thing. It's here, isn't it? It's not a problem of the body anymore. It's a problem of the what? of the what isn't it? What do you think? Put it in the chat. Put it in the chat. What do you think? Anyway, I'm going to show you. I'm going to tell you a story. I'm going to tell you a story.

Here is another person. This gentleman is also a medical doctor. And as you can see from the picture, this picture is very very old, right? Or looks old anyways, black and white. So this gentleman, his name was Graham um Dr. Evers Graham. That was his name. He lived back in the 30s4s and he was a surgeon. He became very famous because he performed a surgery in in a in a man who had lung cancer but he had lung cancer in only one lung. And so he performed a surgery and took out the lung with the tumors and left the other tumor or sorry left the other lung in that person and this man and so the man survived with only one lung and I don't know if you knew that I don't know if you can knew that that person can live with one lung but this man did and so he became wow that's super interesting and so he became famous he also became famous because he had these machines, these contraptions in a lab.

He had this lab with these machines that basically he put cigarettes in these weird contraptions that took out basically the smoking machines kind of took out the tar the smoke and the tar I don't know from the cigarettes. He extracted tar from the cigarettes. And this tar was like a thick uh dark thick uh substance. And he would smear it, I guess, on these well, I guess, lab rats or mice. And he would put it on the lab rats or mice, I guess. And uh the the little mice developed tumors, cancer. And then he would compare the tumors with patients.

And he realized that the cancer that the the mice were developing was the same as the patients that were smoking. So basically he made the connection. This remember you guys back in the 30s and 40s the this was before the general surgeons report from the what 1964 or something where it was definitely established that smoking produced lung cancer. So back in the 40s and 30s and that time it wasn't nearly as accepted that smoking caused cancer. Right? So this was highly debatable I guess at the time and people weren't 100% as convinced I guess.

So he was the one who started to make the case for it by performing these studies. So anyway that was another reason why he became famous. So this man was very famous and obviously as a surgeon he was uh well off he was a very intelligent man wellstudied right and so he was famous he had money he was uh intelligent smart he had everything in life successful man as you can imagine a successful person so anyway he had everything in life except he had one problem. He had a he had a bad habit. He had quite a really bad habit actually.

Can Can you think of what bad habit he might have had? In fact, he had a really bad habit that caused him a big humongous problem. Can you guess what bad problem? bad habit he might have had. Do you want to guess? Well, this man actually smoked cigarettes. He smoked cigarettes. In fact, he was addicted. Oh, sugar. That's a good guess, Tyra. That's a very good guess because guess what? Sugar is just as bad as cigarettes, I would say. But in this case, Dr. Graham was addicted to cigarettes, knowing full well, right?

He was the one doing the studies. He was the one looking at tumors in both humans and animals. And he smoked. And guess what? Not only did he smoke, he developed cancer. And here where the story goes even more sad. He writes a letter. This is how we know the story because he writes a letter to his best friend who was also a physician and his best friend's name was Dr. Alton Ashner who's also a famous doctor, famous surgeon from New Orleans. And the reason why we know this is because Dr. Ashner gives a testimony or reflection later on in life.

I guess he reflected Adventists have a good stop smoking program. Yes, they do. In fact, that's how my that's how I entered the the church because my dad was a smoker. And when I was like 13, 12, 12 years old, uh we were invited to a fiveday smoking program in an Adventist church and my dad went and he stopped smoking thanks to an Adventist smoking program. Yes. Too bad they don't do them as much anymore. There's still people who smoke, but I remember even when I was a child and I was going to a non-adventist church uh school, I remember seeing the posters every year uh for a day of non not smoking uh sponsored by the Adventist church.

This was when I didn't even know about the Adventist church, but every year there was a poster in my school of no smoking day or something rather sponsored by the Adventist church. Anyway, as I was saying, Dr. Ashner wrote a uh or Dr. Evers Graham wrote a letter to his best friend, Dr. Ashner. And Dr. Ashner, many years later, reflected how sad he felt when Dr. Evers Graham wrote him a letter saying um basically said, "I have cancer." He told him, "I have cancer. I have cancer in both lungs. and it is malignant and I won't be living much longer.

Basically, it was an advanced cancer in both lungs and doc Dr. Ashner the friend said he felt so sad because reflecting upon the fact that his friend was so smart, was so intelligent, had such a great career, money, fame, success, I mean everything. He had everything a man could ever desire. But he was going to die soon because he lacked one thing. You know what he lacked? He lacked self-control because he knew full well for years how bad smoking was. He if anyone would know, it would be him. He was the one doing the most advanced research at the time on the dangers of smoking.

If anyone in the world knew how bad smoking, it was Dr. Evers Graham. Why don't we do the very thing we know we need to do? We still don't do it. Well, guess what, Doc? um nearby where I live. I live in California, West Coast, and not too far from here, about an hour and change, less than an hour and a half from where I live, there's a very famous university called Stanford. And back in the 1970s, they studied this. They called it delayed gratification. The the ability to delay gratification is called self-control.

And they studied this through a very famous experiment. I don't know if you've ever heard of this. It's called the marshmallow experiment. I don't know if you've ever heard of it. If you haven't, I invite you to look it up later because it's interesting. It's very, very interesting. It's a series of studies done with children back in the 70s and the children were young between ages of four and six more or less as as you can imagine children at that age love marshmallows as you can imagine right and so the experiment consisted in the following thing.

They would put a child about this age in a room with a table, chair, and a plate. And the plate at first had one marshmallow. And the researcher would say to the child, "Hey, um, here's a marshmallow on a plate and, oh, I have to go somewhere and I will be back in 15 minutes." But if you look, there's a marshmallow here. If you don't eat the marshmallow, I'll wait for me. Don't eat the marshmallow. If you don't eat the marshmallow, I'll bring you back and I'll give you two. But if you eat the marshmallow, I won't give you anything else.

Okay? No more marshmallow if you eat the marshmallow. But if you wait and don't eat it, I'll give you two. Can you wait the 15 minutes? That was the test. So these kids four to six years old, what do you think they did? Can kids wait 15 minutes to eat a marshmallow? What do you think? Do kids have self-control enough to wait? What do you think? Well, some do, some don't, and some are in between. if you Google the marshmallow test, marshmallow experiment, Stanford University, and go to images. It's hilarious, you guys, because you'll see pictures of some of these.

Some do, right? Ros Russellin said some do. Yes, that's right. Some do, some don't. And somewhere in between because some of them were able to wait five minutes and they couldn't wait anymore. They they they would eat it. Some of them waited like 10 minutes and they just couldn't wait anymore. And they would do the most hilarious things to distract themselves. In fact, okay, if you go to images, you'll find some pictures of of what the kids had to do to distract themselves. Okay? And so, some of them would, you see some of these pictures, right?

Some of them would sing. I mean, they had like cameras, I guess, and they would watch them. They would sing, you know, they would they would turn around. They would go like this to not face the marshmallow to try to dist try to distract themselves. They would pick up the marshmallow and smell it and put it back down, right? They would just do all kinds of thing. Look at how tortured this picture in the middle is. Do you see this poor kid? Oh, and the one right here next to me is smelling it. They would do all kinds of things to distract themselves to try not to eat the marshmallow.

And so literally there was all kinds of responses. So from being able to wait all 15 minutes to some kids the person walked out the room, they grabbed the marshmallow, they put it in their mouths immediately. So there was a spectrum of responses. And the interesting thing about this study is that they followed these kids for years through school, high school, college into adult life. That's what's very um revealing and very um very good because that's what was valuable in the sense that it showed what happened later.

And this is what I'm going to tell you about. So, what happened with kids? What happened with the kids that did have self-control? First of all, so that's what I'm going to talk about first. So, the kids who did have self-control. So, this and other experiments, by the way, have found the following with kids who do have self-control. Kids who had self-control, in other words, the ones who were able to wait all 15 minutes, were found to be happier and healthier, have more satisfying relationships that are longlasting.

They were able to earn more money and go further in their careers. They were able to handle stress, conflict, and adversity. They lived longer. Self-control. Oh, watch. This is super interesting. Okay. Self-control is a better predictor of academic success than intelligence. Did you hear? I'll say it again. Self-control is a better predictor of academic success than intelligence. And it is more important in marital happiness, in other words, happiness in your marriage than empathy. Of course, it is if you think about it, because self-control means you're not committing adultery, right?

Obviously. All right. What happened with the kids who did not have self-control? You want to know? Are you curious? I'll tell you. People who well the adults who as kids did did not have self-control. So, the kids who ate the marshmallow either immediately or didn't wait very long. This is what happened. People with less self-control had more economic, family, and social problems, as you might imagine, but they committed more acts of violence and crimes. They had more debts, more addictions, more psychological problems such as depression and anxiety.

Uh other problems related to lack of self-control were the following. Sexually transmitted diseases, uh more high blood pressure and strokes, more alcoholism, as I said, they were more violent crimes and here are some of them. Uh homicide, rape, um they had more cancers as well. So, um, they had more unwanted pregnancies. Here's the thing. They committed more adulteries. There were more divorces. There were there was more unemployment, more financial ruin, more family problems. And there was also more other types of addiction.

I had mentioned alcoholism but there were other types of addictions as well such as addiction behavioral addictions such as addiction to technology, pornography, um that kind of thing. So the bottom line is do you think it is important to have self-control since childhood? Do you think it's good for children to learn to have self-control? I would say undoubtedly yes. Undoubtedly yes. All right. So, but as we read that quote at the beginning from Councils on Diet and Food today, oh I mean that was written back in the what 1800s early 1900s but it seems like it was speaking into the future.

It was telling Tyra thank you. You're saying yes about that question. I think I think you agree. Yes. That quote that Ellen White wrote was predict. Thank you Candy. Thank you very much. That quote from Ellen White was predicting I think today's environment what Yale University you guys calls it. You know, Yale University has come up with a term for today's environment when it comes to appetite and self-control regarding food. And I'm talking about just regarding food. Of course, there's other things that when she wrote about appetite, she she wasn't just talking about food.

She was talking about appetites of the flesh as the Bible calls it, which involves a lot more than just food. But in regards to food, there is a center for the study of obesity or whatever. at Yale and they have come up and they called they call it the obesoggenic environment because especially in developed countries we are surrounded and bombarded with these obesogenic foods which I wouldn't even call them foods because they're not foods really they are food like products um and the reason why I don't call them food is because if you look at the list of ingredients, some of them I don't we don't know what they are.

If you don't if you read ingredients and you don't know what they are, are they really foods? If they're just chemicals and additives, are they really foods? Can we call them I don't know. I don't think they meet the definition of food. Okay, but here's the more worrying aspects of it. Okay, I'm going to show you something that I think is really boring and this is going to be the theme of the next presentation, but I'm just going to give you an advance uh of it. Look at this news uh uh story study.

This is just a headline. Study sugar hidden. That's the operative word here. Sugar hidden. Hidden, you guys. Hidden. Because look at the picture. These aren't candies. This isn't cake. Look at the picture. Right. Sugar hidden in what? What kind of food? Junk. What's the other word for junk again? sugar hidden in junk food is how many times? Are you seeing what I'm seeing? Eight times more what? More what? You guys addictive. Do you see why Ellen White was warning us a hundred years ago? Junk candy.

Thank you. Do you see why Ellen White was warning about appetite? Do you see why Satan has a stronghold on us through appetite? This is a plan. Satan knows what he's doing. He has the whole world under his control. And this is one of his most powerful tools to keep us under his control. Yes, it is mind-blowing, Roselin. Yes, it is mindblowing. This is literal drug and it is so socially acceptable because who's going to go to Thanksgiving meal and say, "Hey, aren't you going to have another I don't know what they call it.

Aren't you going to have some more cocaine? Come on, have some more birthday party. Come on. Aren't you going to have some more heroin? Come on. have some more heroin. Nobody's gonna be saying that. You go to church, nobody's gonna have a whole table of cocaine, heroin, and meth, But sugar is eight times more addictive. And we have whole tables of it at church. Sorry I'm sounding so controversial. I get kind of upset about this. I'm sorry if I sound so judgmental. I'm so sorry. But I am addicted to it and I have a hard time going to a church.

I get invited to give presentations and there's my cocaine. So, sorry if I sound upset, but there it is. My own heroin is right there in front of me. And it is eight times more addictive because it's not just an exaggeration. It says study. That's the first word. Sugar does have withdrawal symptoms, Candy. Yes, you are correct. Of course, it's withdrawal symptoms. It is a drug. That's why people have a hard time stopping eating it. If it wasn't a drug, it wouldn't have withdrawal symptoms. Here's the study.

It's not the only one, by the way. Here's the study. That's why I tell you from the very beginning of my presentations, I'm not just talking here. I show you the the pyramid from the very beginning. I'm not just giving you the bottom stuff. I'm giving you the top. I'm giving you actual evidence. This has been studied. And here's the picture of the of the researchers, you guys. There's the rat in the front. You know what they did to show that this is eight times more addictive? I know it's kind of cruel to animals.

It's okay. It's serious. Yes. Thank you, Candy. Thank you. I'm so sorry, but I do get a little bit upset. Anyway, I wrote my doctoral present uh doctoral dissertation on on um food addictions. This is how how personal it is for me. Anyway, but this is what these people did, okay? They took the rats and they made them addicted to cocaine. To what? To cocaine. They were addicted. And then they put them probably in a cage or something. And once they were already addicted to cocaine, then they they were already trained to get the cocaine.

They probably had some levers. You know how they they they they trained them to get the cocaine. Then they put them exposed to both the cocaine and the sugar. And they went once they had learned to that the other lever had the sugar. Well, they went for the sugar eight more times. You know, I found an actual cartoon of this. Incredibly, people. There's that cartoon. Can you believe it? Somebody made a cartoon of this. Give me some of what that white magic. Sugar is a white powder and so is refined flour.

Just like cocaine is a white powder, you guys. White powder. Wow. If you think about it, that's kind of interesting. They couldn't stop. That's right. So, that's how they figured out that is eight times more addictive. There's another point, you guys. The junk food that is out there that is particularly difficult to resist is usually a combination of fat and sugar. Fat and sugar. Desserts for instance. And if you think about it, there's nothing in nature that has sugar and fat combined. Because if you think about this, in nature you do find things that have fat or that have sugar.

But in processed foods, they put them together. In nature, we have fat like avocados, seeds separate from the sugar. We have sugar. By the way, these foods also have fiber, phytonutrients, minerals, chemicals. They're valuable. They're nutritious for us, but they don't have the sugar and the fat combined. But in processed foods, they put them together in way higher amounts. By the way, there's no nutrition value here because there's no minerals, no vitamins, no phyitochemicals, no fiber, and high amounts of sugar and fat.

way higher than the foods up above here. The starch converts to sugar. Yes. Because these this starch has no fiber. This starch has no fiber. It's very different from whole grain starch. The whole grain starch is encased in fiber and it acts in synergy with all the other nutrients. Whereas this starch is empty calories, very very different. Your body process these foods very different. And when your tongue touches that sugar, it's a hit directly to the brain and stimulates the dopamine system in the brain the exact same way as any other drug.

And that's what I will be talking about two weeks from today. Food addiction and I will explain the neuroscience behind it which is the same as any other addiction. So the same um science behind food addiction is the exact same as alcohol addiction, drug addiction, cigarette addiction, porn addiction, any behavioral addiction is the same as substance addiction, substance use disorder and is the same as food addiction. So all the addictions have the same commonality in the brain which is an alteration of the dopamine system and that's what I will talk about two weeks from today.

So I hope you don't miss it. It's very important to understand this because there is a cure and the cure is in the eight principles of health is one of those principles. So I hope you don't miss it. But there's also another aspect and it's sometimes that we use food to medicate our emotions and this is where eating disorders are born because we use food to medicate ourselves when we have depression, anxiety and we don't have control of our emotions. s lack of self-control. We eat for emotional reasons and we repeat these behaviors over and over and over again.

This is very very very dangerous especially in adolescence as you probably know it can lead to serious eating disorders. This is you know this last week this is not very common. I don't know what's happening. I don't know what's happening. But this last week, I got two moms, two mothers who called me for the exact same reason. This is This doesn't happen to me very often, but two mothers called me for the exact same reason. Two young girls the similar age that are having these issues. And I think it has to do with social media and peer pressure at school, but it's getting really bad.

It's getting really really bad. The I don't know. I don't know. But uh this is a problem and what I think is the one of the solutions is that parents need to provide a safe environment with healthy foods from birth if possible but from very very young and to provide that healthy environment so that young kids are not scared of their weight. If kids are scared of their weight, they're going to restrict. And the reason why they're uh restricting is because they're scared of gaining weight. And they're gaining weight because they're eating junk food.

Yeah. So anyway, how do we do this? Well, anyway, I today what I really want to u finish off is by giving you the nine keys, what I've learned are the some of the best ways to achieving your goals. How do you Okay, first of all, you have to set goals. for your health. So, we talked about diabetes, blood pressure, cholesterol. Do you have any of these that are too high? So, I do 10day programs as I uh mentioned in my work. So, we measure uh total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol. Uh some doctors measure something called Apo B, which is another way to measure bad cholesterol.

You can measure uh triglycerides. Sometimes people have those high as well. Uh your glucose or your A1C, that's a way to measure how much sugar is in your blood. Uh blood pressure. Uh also, of course, weight, which is not is not it doesn't have to do with how good you look. It has to do with your health because carrying extra weight that atapost tissue in your body is uh inflammatory. That adipose tissue in the body releases cytoines, inflammatory cytoines that elevate inflammation in your body.

Also, by the way, that extra cyto uh adopose tissue releases also hormones for both males and females, and I'm talking about estrogen in particular. So, males that carry extra weight have extra estrogen. You know, sometimes men think that if they drink soy milk, they're going to get male boobs. No, the male boobs don't come from drinking soy milk. They they come from the fat tissue because it produces extra estrogen. Anyway, all this also cancer risk. The adipose tissue produces cancer risk. We already talked about the insulin resistance.

Anyway, so all of this extra weight is a health risk. Okay? So, we need to set oursel health goals and to build self-control to be able to achieve those health goals. So, today I'm going to talk about nine steps or keys to be able to achieve those. So, I'm going to go through them. Are you ready to write? Or you can watch this again if you don't catch them. But I think these throughout the years and also studying, you know, some of the health behavior, these are ways you you can achieve that. Okay.

So number one, one of the first ways to do it first of all is to find your why. This is very important. You have to find your inner motivation. How do you do that though? Well, you know, sometimes as Christians wanting to glorify God in our bodies, we have sometimes a spiritual reason to do that. But sometimes you also have an more inner reason. You have to keep asking yourself, why do I want to do this? And and once you give yourself a reason, but why do I want to do this? You know why? And keep asking yourself until you find the innermost reason um for that.

So keep asking yourself until you find the last reason, the most inner reason, and then put that somewhere. Put it in front of your mirror in the morning or put it on on the on the fridge maybe or somewhere where you can face it every single day to remind yourself so that when you are tempted to maybe you know have something that you shouldn't or maybe you're don't want to get up to go for a walk or something you're able to remind yourself of your why. But another way that helps sometimes is to make a list of the pros and cons.

So that way you can that maybe use your thinking process to motivate yourself. By the way, in behavioral health, behavioral science, there is a theory of behavioral change called the stages of change. And it's very interesting how sometimes people who don't even want to change that's called the precontemplation stage when you don't even ah no no I don't want to I don't want to change my diet at all. No no no don't even talk to me about your diet. No. How do you get a person to move from that precontemplation stage to maybe think, well, maybe I should, you know, maybe I I do really need to think about how I should change my diet or start exercising or something.

How do you move that needle? And what I have found is that the more people are exposed to health information. And it doesn't have to be that people are nagging them all the time, but maybe going to a health presentation, listening to something maybe like this, a health presentation on Facebook, on YouTube, at a church, watching, you know, a documentary, the more people hear, sometimes you think they're not listening. You don't even know if that seed is planted and months from now, years from now that seed may yield fruit.

The more people listen, sometimes it seems like it's not giving any results, but you don't know. So just even for yourself, expose yourself to more and more information so that someday that will make a difference. So that leads to number two which is the inspiration. I recommend watch all the documentaries that you can. Forks Over Knives is a classic now. I recommend everybody watch It was produced in 2011 I think. Um and it's a classic. It's It's now a classic because it's one of the first ones that really started off this movement in plant-based nutrition.

And if you watch it, it might change your life. So, warning, it might change your life. Uh, it's a great movie. I think documentaries um are one of those things that can really change a person's life. So, I recommend watching them. Honestly, I do. I do. So, if you if you have someone in your life that you're worried about their health or something, maybe offer to sit down with them. Hey, let's watch this on a Saturday night or something, you know, just offer to watch one of these. So, these are the ones that I really, really recommend.

There's more. I just have a couple here that um that I put on on in this presentation that I think are really, really good, but there's actually a few more that uh that are out there that are just as good. But this is a classic, Forks Over Knives. There's another one called What the Health and it's excellent. It's really inspirational. And the most inspirational part of these documentaries o obviously is the testimonials. So you see people's lives being transformed and their health being just like, wow, amazing testimonials.

and the one that inspired my work. So, our job, we do a 10day um intervention, if you will, like a 10-day challenge, and people change, you know, their biometrics in only 10 days. And like I told you, I've seen people's LDL drop 10, 20, 30, 40% or more. Same with glucose, same with total cholesterol, blood pressure. I mean, amazing results. Well, this was all born from a documentary actually which was uh this is the documentary that I'm this is it plant pure nation and in this uh documentary you see exactly that they go to South Carolina I think or North Carolina I don't remember I think it's South Carolina and it was produced by the son of Dr.

T. Colin Campbell. If you've ever read the China Study, that's the author. T. Colin Campbell is the author of The China Study. Pretty famous man. His son Nelson Campbell produced this documentary. And Nelson Campbell started after this documentary that was pretty successful. He started this network of groups around the country that do 10-day programs. And the 10-day program is all called Community RX. Our program is called Community RX. We're in the middle of a program right now called Community RX.

And they're 10-day programs. And so in this uh movie, you you basically see that how that works. So they and they had more money than we do. So they actually take the biometrics at the beginning. They take their, you know, their cholesterol, glucose and triglycerides, all this stuff. And then they give them the food throughout the 10 days. They actually give them the food. The people pick up the food every day. And at the end of the 10 days, they give the bio they do the biometric testing again.

And you see their faces like, "What? I've never seen my triglycerides this low in my whole life." Ah, so it's really inspirational what can happen in only 10 days. By the way, that's in the Bible. So, as you know, read chapter one of Daniel if you want to see in the Bible. Anyway, recommend it. Highly recommend it. At least these three. So, where did where do you find inspiration? documentaries, films, classes, go to cooking classes, programs like this one or other ones at church presentations at church at YouTube or whatever things like this.

So, this is where you find this kind of inspiration. Seek it, search for it. Okay. Number three is determination. Anything is possible if you have the intelligence and the willpower to make it happen. But you need God's help obviously for that. Okay. So, but this is how I think of it as the termin. What is determination? When a bride is going and I've heard this story over and over again, so I know this happens in this real. When a bride wants to fit into a certain size of dress by her wedding date and let's say there's six months to that wedding date and she needs to lose a certain amount of pounds, you can put all the donuts in the world in front of that bride, all the cake, all the pizza, and all the stuff in the world.

But if she is determined to fit into that dress, it doesn't matter. She will do it. You see, that's determination. When you have something in your mind that you want to do, you will do it. And you know what the Bible talks about that? Let us not become weary in doing good. For at the proper time, we will reap the harvest if we do not give up. Galatians 6:9. You can have this. Put it in your fridge. I'm just saying fridge if that's you know your goal has to do with your fridge maybe. Okay. Next thing is to set those goals.

Okay. Goals are very important. Do you need to lower your glucose? Okay. That's a goal. Write it down. Do you know that the difference between the people who achieve their goals and th and those who do not is that the people who achieve the their goals write them down. Do you know that CEOs that make millions of dollars a years have coaches and pay those coaches hundreds of thousands of dollars a year and those coaches tell them you have to write down your goals. They literally paid these people hundreds of thousands of dollars a years to tell them this one thing.

Write down your goals. And these goals have to be smart goals. You know what smart stands for, right? You know this concept of smart goals. Smart goals have to follow these rules. They have to be specific. Meaning I want to lose weight. Okay. Or no, no, no, wait. A non nonspecific goal would be I want to be healthy. That's not specific. I want to lose weight would be specific. But I want to be healthy. That's too vague. Needs to be specific in the sense that it needs to be measurable. The M stands for measurable.

You have to be able to measure it. Health is not measurable, but weight is measurable. Cholesterol is measurable. Glucose is measurable. Things that are measurable are specific. Also, it needs to be attainable because if you say, I want to lose 100 pounds in a month, that's not attainable. You cannot lose that kind of weight. Okay. I want to drop my cholesterol from 300 to 150 in two weeks. Okay, that's kind of crazy. Do things are attainable, realistic, relevant. Okay, if you have diabetes and your goal is to read a a book a week, okay, that's a great goal, but let's stick to what's needed at the moment.

Okay, I mean, maybe that goal is great, too. Maybe that's you want to do that too. But how about we think about health goals at the moment because your diabetes is maybe what needs attention at the moment. So that's what's relevant. That's just an example I'm giving you. Okay? And the last thing is time based. Set a date. Set a date by when. If you don't set a date, it might never happen. It might never happen. So set a date. That's how you get it done. So make yourself a little worksheet and write those things down.

If you don't write them, it might never happen. Write them down. Even put a signature. Even have a witness. Have a witness. Your child, your best friend, your parent, your spouse. Accountability. Some have an accountability partner that will help. All right. So, that's how you get it done. Do not super long-term goals. Make them somewhat medium to short because if they're way too long in the future, then they might never happen either. All right? So, set them to be somewhat medium to short term.

Okay. The next one is to plan ahead. This is extremely important if you really want to get your goals uh achieved. You need to plan and especially when it comes to healthy eating and exercise. People don't realize how important it is to do this. They really underestimate this one. Planning ahead is vital. Vital, especially with these things. What are you going to do for next Thanksgiving? Especially if your family is not on the same page. You might need to take food. Take food. You know, I've been doing this for years.

My family eats my food. Sometimes I eat all of my food that I take for Thanksgiving. I'm like, "Hey, I thought you guys weren't, you know, eating all that. How come I don't have any leftovers? You guys have so much leftovers. I don't have any because you guys ate all my food. It's fine. It's okay. They're eating healthy food, so it's fine. I don't care anymore. Make sure you are paying attention. Family gatherings, holidays, plan ahead. Take food. Meal events with co-workers. Stay away from those donuts if they take too many donuts to work.

Hanging out with old friends. All of these things. Plan ahead. Plan ahead. Plan ahead. have non-negotiables. Okay? So, plan ahead for social gatherings, plan ahead for all these things, parties, all of these. When you're going to eat at a restaurant, this is what my husband and I do. We look up the restaurants, look up the menu, and if they don't have anything you could eat, just go at a different restaurant. If you're traveling, whatever cities you're going to stop by, this is what we do. We're already used to it.

We We're taking a a a road trip. We look up all the cities in the middle, you know, on the way and we like, okay, this, you know, we look up Yelp or whatever, and we look up the restaurants, okay, we already know where we're going to go. On the planes, we take our own food. If we're going to long international travel or whatever, we request vegan foods and we still take food just in case because sometimes the food is no bueno. That's what we do. Okay? So, you plan ahead. Don't go for fat diets, okay?

Just go with God's diet all the time. That's not a fat diet. For forget about marketing, advertising, all that stuff. Have a worksheet or something. Make sure you know when you're going to be exercising. That's a non-negotiable. God made your body to move. With the sweat of thy brow, you shall eat. God made you to eat and sweat, not just All right, put it in your calendar. That's a non-negotiable. What are you going to be eating for breakfast, lunch, and dinner all week? Have a prep day. Which of these days is going to be your prep day?

Make a dressing. Maybe on Sundays, that's your prep day. Cut all your veggies for the week and make your your dressing for your salad. So that way during the week, you just go Boop. Salad done. Dressing store already there. And cook your healthy meals if you need to. Have a big pot of beans or something. Make your foods ahead of time if you need to. So that way throughout the week, you don't have to stop at that fast food restaurant. Because when it's 12:30, 1:00 p.m., and you're hungry for lunch, and you haven't prepped anything, what are you going to do?

It's so much easier to just go through that drive-thru if you're hungry. If you're hungry, whereas if you already have it prepped ahead of time, no thinking. There's no thinking necessary. It's already done. See, make sure you know when you're going to be doing your strengthening exercise, your cardio, all of that ahead of time. All right. Next one is perseverance. Don't give up. If something doesn't come easy, the average person will give up. That's why they remain average. You know, the best example in the Bible of perseverance, I think, is Job.

Best example. He left us this. The righteous shall hold on his way. Hold on. Don't give up. Now, some of the things that help us to persevere, I think, is to join a group, to have some social support. It's very motivating. It helps you to feel, you know, part of something. It helps when you feel isolated. Online groups are just as good as in person, by the way. And if there's not one, then you start one. Start a group in your own house, in the local church. This is a perfect ministry opportunity.

This is me, by the way, doing a cooking class. start a cooking class or a Bible study on health or a Bible study, whatever. I'm just saying this is a perfect ministry opportunity. Perfect. But the key for this ministry to be successful is consistency. I mean in in the terms of ministry as in evangelism for health ministry to be successful evangelistically speaking is consistency. It needs to be done regularly and that's how it will work so that people know that it will happen once a month or once uh every other week or whatever.

It's the consistency that will make it successful as a ministry. All right. Number seven. Oh, four and five. Okay. So candy four was number four was to set goals. That's number four. Set goals and make sure they are smart goals. Specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and timebased. Okay. And number five is to plan ahead. Make sure you plan ahead for special op uh special events espec uh especially um okay so let me show you I'm I'm thinking I'm going through all of these okay so plan ahead and special especially for social roadblocks and for environmental roadblocks such as you know eating at a restaurant all these things traveling those things are important make a chart um for planning ahead throughout the week.

That's number five. Plan ahead. Okay. Okay. So number seven is to form habits. Forming habits is making things automatic. So when you create a habit, you don't need willpower anymore. For instance, when you do exercise every morning, it becomes automatic. You just grab those tennis shoes and you go for a walk. That's just an example, okay? It's the same thing that happens when you're a child and when you're like two or whatever, you don't have the habit to brush your teeth. And I had the hardest time to teach my daughter how to brush your teeth for it to become habit.

You know what I mean? At first, she just fought me for years. she don't want to brush her teeth and uh uh can you give us some guidelines on exercise? Okay, guidelines on exercise. That's very good question. I would say the ideal on exercise. Let's go back to this picture on exercise because these ladies, this is a picture from Honduras and uh these ladies were exercising probably after many years of not exercising and um we would take them for walks first and the cardio part. The cardio part I think is extremely important.

That's for the heart. Cardio means you know it comes from the root word for heart and cardio I think is necessary at least I would say well the so the minimal recommendations are 150 minutes a week I'd say that's too low but okay you can start building up from 150 minutes a week I'd say the more the better that's why you know I I always cite that uh Bible verse that says with the sweat of thy brow you shall eat. So that means that when we eat, we should sweat too the same day hopefully. Uh but I think walking every day is a really good practice.

Uh 30 minutes a day for instance or more if possible. For diabetics, the best time to eat is after meals. So if you break up those 30 minutes into 10 minutes after every meal, if you eat three times a day, 15 minutes after every meal for you twice a day, uh but if you can after every meal, that's ideal for diabetics. If you're not diabetic, anytime you can walk, if if whatever works with your lifestyle, your schedule, whatever works before meal or before breakfast is the best time for burning fat if you are trying to lose weight.

So, you know, if that works with you, if you're really struggling with losing those last 10 pounds before breakfast would be ideal because that's when you're fasted, so you're into that burning fat burning uh mode, if you will. So, if you can do fit it in before breakfast, it super great. But if not, don't worry about it. Do at whatever time it fits. You know, it doesn't matter if what's matters is doing it. That's the most important part. So, cardio, when it comes to resistance exercise, I think it's vital to do it as well.

It needs to be part of your your life because our ancestors did it as part of their lifestyle. They simply did it because they had to. They had to work outside in the fields. They had to grow their own food. They had to cut wood. They had to carry heavy the wood, you know, they had to the women had to wash the clothes by hand and then carry the wet clothes. So they had to carry weight. So they had to use their muscles way more than us. We lose muscle 3 to 8% a decade. Every decade after the age of 30, we are losing muscle unless we're doing resistance exercise.

We absolutely have to prevent that through resistance exercise. Minimum I would say three times a week minimum but if you haven't done it for years and years and years you should start with two times a week uh maybe 30 minutes start slow start very mightly use bands or use your own weight your own you know body weight um so start you know go to a doctor first if you're a certain age but we absolutely need to be doing resistance exercise uh consult with your doctor go you know if you've had any um any injuries, go to maybe a uh uh physical therapist.

You know, make sure you're not injuring yourself, but everybody should be at least preventing further muscle loss. So, put it in the schedule. Make sure you get enough guideline, but everybody should be at the very least preventing further muscle loss, but everybody should be doing both kinds. So it and it should become a habit so that it becomes automatic just like brushing your teeth so that way you're not thinking about it. Don't don't don't uh don't wait any longer. Make it a habit. People started getting sick when air conditioning was invented.

So much nicer to stay indoors because it's nice temperature. Nice temperature inside. Right. You're absolutely right, Candy. All right. So, let's make exercising the automatic part of our lives. Same with eating a big salad. Eat a big green salad every day. And when you take the old bad habits out, put a new one in. Don't leave a vacuum in there. If you leave a vacuum, that old habit's going to come back. So, replace that habit with something new. Put something in there. That's good. All right. Number eight is get support from your family.

Get help if you professional help if you need it. But if you're starting something new and your family is not in the same page, at least let them know because the last thing you need is for your family to sabotage your attempts. Uh so at the very least, I mean this is the hard part. Honestly, this could be very difficult sometimes, but you know, sometimes we can get our family to at least not sabotage her in our attempts, you know, out of love hopefully, right? You know, one time I remember seeing one of those episodes from those shows, My 600 pound life.

I don't know if you remember any of you remember this is a terrible show of very large people my 600 lb life and there was one lady who was really really really trying to lose weight because she was like 600 lb and her husband who wasn't 600 lb her husband would bring junk food to the house because he didn't want her to lose the weight there was a codependence here I mean that would be worst case scenario hopefully that's not the days. So, you know, hopefully there will be some support in the house and hopefully the best thing would be that the whole family is on the same page.

Um, but you know, you can always say, "Hey, my doctor said I need to do this. My nutritionist said I need to do this. Can you please recommend a particular YouTube channel or online group that we can exercise with daily or at least until we get to understand or learn a routine?" Well, pastor um our pastor is doing this. Pastor Ivra Myyers is doing an exercise group. So, I would say join Pastor Meyers. I would say he is awesome. He's been doing well, I don't know what exactly he's been doing because I haven't been able to join it to ask to follow with him.

I personally, as a woman, I've been doing a program called V Fit and it's just for women. Um, but she only does it a few times a year and right now she's not doing it actively, but she does have like um like um an an app and um so I you know you keep doing the app and she has these um these uh uh workouts in the apps and she also has her um recipes and she has different things in the app but it's mostly for women. So, these are workouts for women and the recipes are all vegan. Uh, so that's what I've been doing for because, you know, I didn't know the pastor was going to be doing anything.

This is very recent. So, I've been doing this for like two or two years or something. And um and it's it's for women. Um, so there's that, too. There's there's some programs out there. I've seen also one called Vegan Gym. I haven't uh followed him very closely. I think these are two guys that are European, I think. Uh, but I've seen Vegan Gym um out there. So, there's some people out there doing stuff. Not that I know too much about it. Oh, it's called V V with V Fit. And this is for girls, for ladies.

Um, so anyway, V Fit. and she's in Florida and I so again I I I just discovered this other people called Vegan Gym or something like that. Uh but Pastor Myers is doing it. So why not join Pastor Myers? I think probably the best probably the best person to to join. Um but anyway for the other thing is for food or something ministry opportunity you guys you can start something start something if you don't find what you want you can always start something all right last thing is always the most important is to trust in God do you know that uh AA alcoholics anonymous or other 12step uh programs uh they rely on, you know, they call it the higher power um because everybody not everybody who goes there is Christian.

But this is such an important part of their philosophy, you know, having to not rely on yourself basically to recognize that you can't do this on your own, you know, to to be able to um be able to stop drinking or stop whatever addiction you have. You can't do this on your own. But I have found uh in the scientific literature this super interesting. It says religion. Do you see this? Are you reading this? It says religion replenishes self-control. Wow. Religion replenishes self-control. In this study, they found the participants who were given a sentence containing five words to unscramble and some contained religious themes and others did not.

And after unscrambling the sentences, the participants were asked to complete a number of tasks that required self-control. Basically, that's what they did. Uh so some of them enduring discomfort, delayed gratification, exerting patience and refraining from impulsive responses. And the participants who had unscrambled the sentences containing religious themes had more self-control in completing their tasks. And the the author said, "Our most interesting finding was that religious concepts were able to refuel self-control after it had been depleted by another unrelated task.

In other words, even when we found when we would predict people to be unable to exert self-control after completing religiously themed tasks, they defied logic and were able to muster self-control. Until now, I believe, so this is one of the authors. I believed religion was a matter of faith. People had little practical use for religion. This research actually suggests that religion can serve in a very useful function in society. People can turn to religion not just for transcendence and fears regarding death and afterlife but also for practical purposes.

That's what the author said. Wow. Wow. Wow. Okay. This other study says religious. So the the title religious self-regulation and self-control associations explanations and implications and in this study um the reviews oh this study reviews the different effects that religious of religious practices such as prayer on self-regulation and self-control. if you go further, you know, you read more into the study itself, you go down into more in detail into the study itself, they found that prayer does have an effect on the brain's neuroscircuits.

And when neuroscientists observe people praying and meditating, they see strong activity in two parts of the brain that they're also important in self-regulation and control of attention. They found that prayer meditation rituals are kind of anorobic exercise for self-control. So there's science behind this you guys. Prayer helps with selfont control. Is that amazing? I think it is. So God has given us not a spirit of fear but of love and power and selfontrol. That's in first Timothy but I forgot the exact second Timothy.

And I forgot the chapter 51 17 something like that. But anyway, I wanted to give you this the nine ways to I hope this was helpful. I want to give you my website again, healthforttoday.net. Because in this website, as I've told you many times, you can do the 10day program. If you really want to improve your health, you can uh do 10 days to better health at least your diet. You can find in this website, the 10day challenge. This is by the way my website in Spanish because it's also in Spanish. Salutarawunto.com.

Okay. So, healthfor.net and salute punto and you can improve your health in 10 days. I already went through the whole fourpart uh series on diabetes and how it is related to insulin resistance which is the root cause for both diabetes but also all the complications that come with the insulin resistance. Okay. So you want me to put the Oh, I don't know if I can put it in the chat. I don't know if maybe our How do I put it in the other chat? I don't know how to do it. I need it. I don't know how to put it in that chat, It's healthfor.net or salto.

And I don't know how to Oh, in Facebook, you mean? Oh, I can do it. I can put it in Facebook. I'll put it I'll put it on Facebook when this broadcast is over. Don't worry, Miranda. Miranda way upon it. Okay, don't worry about it. I will put it in Facebook and salute. No problem, Miranda. Don't worry about it. I will put the I think you want the the um I think you want the website, right? I think you want the website. Don't worry about it, Miranda. I will put it. Okay. So if you need any other any other uh help you can contact me in any one of these two websites health for today or salute paroi.com either the English or the Spanish.

Oh there it is. Um our producer put it up for you you guys. So thank you guys. I think our producer can take out if you want uh the take it out of the the screen. But thank you guys for being here with us and uh we'll see you in two weeks. Two weeks. I will be speaking about food addictions in two weeks. So invite your friends because I think we will close the um the cycle on this very important topic. Um I think it's there it is. Okay. Um I think it's very important to finish this kind of talking about food addictions.

Okay. Because we've been talking about diabetes, we've been talking about insulin resistance and we've been talking about all the different complications. We tal we finished the four uh part series on the diabetes and insulin resistance and it's all about food and of course we will be continue to talk about health and food related issues right but I wanted to finish with these two presentations on the habits and self-control to kind of give you a foundation on that and then the next presentation will be about food addiction which is a little bit deeper into the neuroscience of the food addiction uh in particular because that's a little bit a little bit deeper if you will and a little bit you know a little bit harder.

Uh and it's you know it it is a little bit more um it's a it's a it's a it's a bit more you know to take if you will. Okay, this is a little bit lighter topic. That one is a little bit more uh but I think it's it's it's very important to understand because it is so relevant nowadays. Food addiction is a thing and it's going on. So that's two weeks from today. I will give you the date. It will be the second, September 2nd. Uh so we'll be sending you the slides for today's presentation and September 2nd we will do true health Tuesday and it will be on food addictions which by the way is the same as I said before is the same principle behind all addictions.

So once we understand how to heal food addiction is really the same principle behind all addictions honestly. So can we do menu planning? Yes. So that's why in healthfor.net it. I give you a 10day menu. Okay, 10day menu with recipes and uh you can use that menu as a foundation to then build on build on that and you can do two weeks, you can do a month ahead of time if you want. I definitely recommend doing menu planning. Definitely it it will change your life because it makes things so much easier.

It makes things way much way easier if you want to eat healthy. That way, you know, you're not struggling last minute on what am I going to eat? What am I going to do? You can do shopping. By the way, my 10day uh my 10day challenge thing has a uh also a shopping list. So, that can help too. So, that way you know what to buy. So, I try to make it easy for people. Okay. So, it's an introduction. It's only 10 days, but then you can build on that. Okay. So, thank you for being with us once again. I hope this was helpful and and educational.

If you have any questions, please contact me and my website. You already hopefully wrote it down. And we're going to finish today's presentation with some prayer. And I hope you have a wonderful, wonderful evening. And don't forget to like and subscribe to these channels and YouTube and to connect with all the other uh programming on living mana online church. Okay. So let's finish with some prayer. Dear heavenly father, thank you so much for giving us a chance to have this presentation and for giving us this wonderful health message that we can use not only for our own health and our own benefit to be able to take care of our body temple, but also that we can share with others so that they can achieve better health and they can learn that you are our God and creator and that they can learn also how to glorify you through their bodies.

Be with us the rest of this evening and the rest of this week and uh help us to have wisdom to uh so that we can care for our bodies and uh and achieve better health. If we have any diseases, I I ask Lord that if anyone who is watching has any health issues that you bless them Lord and put your healing hands over them and their families in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Thank you once again you guys. See you soon in two weeks and bless you and have a good night.