Hi, happy Sabbath living man church family. Um, please put in the chat where you are viewing from. And if this is your first time joining us, please put a one in the chat so we can say, "Hi, welcome." Um, so obviously this Sabbath is a little bit different. Um, LMC teens and youth will be leading out in the service today and that's why I'm here. Um so yeah please um share this and um give us your support and just pray that Holy Spirit will really use this today. So for Sabbath school we have other familiar faces but they are teens.

So Huh? >> Hi. Happy Sabbath. We're really excited to be doing this for you guys. Um, it looks like we're Kazia is having a little bit of an issue, but I think um, what do you say, Michaela? Should we start out praying or do you want to just give a quick overview of what the Sabbath school lesson is about? Okay, let me give you guys a quick overview overview. So, um, of course, we're excited to be welcoming you to the first ever LOC, um, youth Sabbath. This is a big, >> uh, a big thing for us teens because we've been preparing for this for like months now, and we're excited to be able to minister to you guys today.

Um, the Sabbath school, like Michaela said, is going to be a little bit different. Um, we've gotten used to doing the Christian art of war with pastor and first lady over the past couple of weeks, but today we're actually going to give you a um a sneak peek into our um uh youth Sabbath night um not Sabbath night, youth Friday night vespers program where we study the Bible and we um you know do freestyle photo theology and just have a great time together. So, um please comment and add your contributions in the YouTube chat.

We'll be looking out for those. Um and today we're actually going to be looking at um fire in the Bible. You know, our sermon title today is forms without fire and um we're going to be looking at this in Sabbath school. What is the context of fire in the Bible? How is God connected to fire? And yeah, your thoughts and your contributions and comments. put those all in the YouTube chat and we'll try to keep up with them as best as we can. Yeah. So, like Melinda said, we'll we're hoping to give you a little bit an idea of how the team group tends to study together and share a little bit of it and yeah, fire.

So, oh, there's Kaza. Hi, Kazia. >> Hi, everyone. Hi. Happy So, should we start uh out by reading a passage that has a lot of fire? >> Let's start with prayer though first so we can call down the fire from heaven. >> Yes, that's a good idea. That's a good idea. >> Will you pray with us, Michael? >> Dear heavenly father, >> yes. Dear heavenly father, um please bless us with wisdom, understanding, and your holy spirit as we study this. um please uh give our minds clarity and please show us what you want us want to show us today.

Thank you. In your name I pray. Amen. >> Amen. >> So how about um Daniel 3 and um I can start that. Daniel 3. >> So, Daniel, >> starting at verse 15. >> Okay. Starting at verse 15. >> Um, and then maybe I'll read through 18 and then we can go back and forth a little bit. Yeah. Okay. So now if you're ready at the time you hear the sound of the horn, the flute, the harp, the liar, and sultry and symphony with all kinds of music, and you fall down and worship the image which I have made good. But if you do not worship, you shall be cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.

And who is the god who will deliver you from my hands?" Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, "Oh Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. If that is the case, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from a burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us from your hand, O king. But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you have set up. Uh, Kazilla, maybe do you want to take it?

>> What verse? >> Starting at 19, maybe through 23. Okay, I'll go ahead for the time being. >> Um, then Nebuchadnezzar Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury. An expression on his face changed towards Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. He spoke and commanded that they heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated. And he commanded certain mighty men of valor who were in his army to bind Shadrach, Mesach, and Abednego, and cast them into the burning fiery furnace. Then these men were bound in their coats, their trousers, their turbons, and their other garments, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.

Therefore, because the king command king's command was urgent and the furnace exceedingly hot, the flame of the fire killed those men who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished, and he rose in haste and spoke, saying to his counselors, "Did we not cast three men bound into the midst of the fire?" They answered and said to the king, "True, O king.

Look," he answered, "I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they are not hurt in the form of the fourth. It's like the son of God." Then Nebuchadnezzar went near the mouth of the burning fiery furnace and spoke, saying, "Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedneo, servants of the most high God, come out and come here." Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came from the midst of the fire. And the satraps, administrators, governors, and kings counselors gathered together, and they saw these men on whose bodies the fire had no power.

The hair of their head was not singed, nor were their garments affected, and the smell of the fire was not on them. So, I think we could stop there probably. so >> you're muted, Melinda. >> Sorry. >> Okay. >> So, I'd like to share something. >> I'll give my thoughts real quick. >> Okay. Go ahead. Yes. >> Okay. Sorry. I don't want to interrupt your train of thought, but to me, like I'm seeing like two main themes in this passage. I see um being bound and worship and there is connection between the worship and the being bound because you refuse to worship this.

I'm going to bind you and throw you in this fire. And yet the three guys the three guys the three Daniel's free friend three friends are fireproof. >> Wow. >> Yeah. Wow. Yeah, I'm definitely seeing similar similar correlation there. Like um what the king is having them do is exact opposite of how God works and how God wants things to go. Like so first off, he's telling them to worship something that's other than God, other than who God really is. And then he's also um how he's acting is completely the opposite of God.

So he's like, "Okay, I'm going to give you a second chance. I'm going to show mercy here." And then suddenly boom. Okay, no, heat up the fire seven times hotter and okay, just throw them in. Like it's from mercy to like complete wrath. I guess you could say like wrath with no mercy. from zero to 100. >> Yeah. It's like how that's so the opposite of God, how God works where >> Um >> so something something that I really Yeah. Go ahead, Kazia. Go ahead, Kazia. um is that we can say that what King Nebuchadnezzar wanted Daniel and his two friends to do while Daniel wasn't there, his three friends to do is he wanted them to not submit to Nebuchadnezzar, but submit to him and just know that they were safe in what he would do for them >> and not say, "Okay, let's just bow down and this is going to be over.

But imagine if we personally in our lives bow down to self what others will say about us or how our reputation or our character will show that we are easily we're easily blown by the wind. We don't have a firm stand. And you can see with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedneo that they had a firm stand. They knew okay we can't do that or we can't do this. They had their stand but if we don't have our stand imagine today what Bible story would be written in the Bible if Shadak and Abednego bowed down to the idol.

What what would be written? It would be a totally different thing. And so we have to say that having the the the the firm stand we can be like Shadik Mushika and Abednego in every path. >> I like what you said Kia. You talked about how you, the king of Babylon, wanted the three friends to to feel safe in his will for them. And the fact that they didn't feel safe in his will and they were like, "No, there's a higher will than yours that we feel safe in." And get this, we feel safe in this higher will even if it means we have to go into a physically unsafe environment aka the fiery furnace because that is not a safe thing for us humans like fire we just don't mix with that right and they were like the king wanted them to feel safe in his will but they felt safe in God's will and were willing to go into unsafe places knowing that they were in God's Wow.

I've never seen that before. >> Yeah. And then because they were willing and they chose, they chose to not give in to hold on to what they knew was right. How they knew God wanted them to react. They gave a response that was in line with God's will. They were able to get up and walk in the middle of the fire with God because they held on to him. So, and then I love that part about the only thing that was destroyed was their bonds in the middle of the fire. The only thing was burnt >> was what was binding them.

What does it say? My chains are gone. I've been set free. >> And this is the thing. >> Things that shackle us, things that bind us, bad habits. And I'm going to give away my sermon here, but bad habits and and bad tendencies and just like, you know, all the anti fruits of the spirit like impatience, ingratitude, just roughness, all these things. These are binds. These are ropes that bind us. And I I don't I want to bring Samson into here because you mentioned to me Michaela yesterday when we were talking about this that >> Samson maybe you have the scripture reference when he was bound he and then he woke up and he snapped those ropes just like a fire had you know snapped snapped them or singed them.

And I think when we get in touch with the fire it will snap anything that binds us. Yeah. Yeah. It literally says the Holy Spirit came on him like a fire and what was binding him, the senus, the cords or whatever, both instances, they just snapped like nothing. Like they've been burnt. That's insane. >> Definitely. >> Well, there are a lot more instances for >> Yeah, there are a ton. We is there something more we want to talk about on this one or should we go on? So, I think I'd be really interested to see um how does God identify as fire and then look at the context that he appears in as fire.

Like we have several things in the wilderness, you know, with the Israelites, we have the the cloud of fire by night and then the burning bush >> and then um a lot of times God gives uh fire from heaven as a approval of a sacrifice. >> And I'm just getting thoughts here right now. And then there's also >> I see. >> And then there's also on the mountain when he was giving the ten commandments. >> Yes. >> It looked like the mountain was on fire. >> There was fire. >> Okay. So scripture reference >> for >> Should we start with the burning bush?

>> Fiery. Yeah, let's start with the burning bush. Where is that, Michaela? Exodus. >> Okay, it's Exodus 3. verse verse two. We could start at verse one. Oh my goodness. Okay. I Oh yeah. H. All right. So, can I read this? >> Yes. Go ahead. >> Okay. I'm just going to kind of read till um verse six. Now Moses was tending the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock to the back of the desert, and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. And the angel of God appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst of a bush.

So he looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, but the bush was not consumed. Then Moses said, "I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush does not burn." So when the Lord saw that he turned aside to look, God called to him from the midst of the bush and said, "Moses, Moses." And he said, "Here I am." Then he said, "Do not draw near to this place. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy ground. Moreover, he said, "I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob."

And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. >> There's some serious connection there, though, actually. Oh yeah. >> Like >> I I something I'm seeing is that this bush didn't burn in the fire the same like the three Hebrew boys did not burn in that fire. I'm like oh >> fire. The bush was fireproof. >> It was on fire though, >> but it just wasn't destroyed. That makes me think of um >> Revelation Revelation chapter 7 I believe where it talks about let me check that the ceiling and there were four angels you know they're standing at the four corners of the earth and another angel cries out to them and says do not harm the earth the sea or the trees until we have sealed the servants of God on on their foreheads.

And it's really interesting because I don't want to bring Revelation into this, but later on in Revelation chapter 9, >> Mhm. >> the locusts come out of the bottomless pit and they were commanded not to harm the grass of the earth or any green thing or any tree, but only those men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. And the context of this, this is a different study entirely, but what's interesting to me is that the green things of the earth are talked of like they have the seal of God.

So this bush is definitely a green thing, right? So can green things represent the sealed people of God is something I'm wondering. There is a text and I don't trying to find it. Oh yeah, Jeremiah 11:16. that kind of goes along with that. The Lord called your name green olive tree, lovely and of good fruit with the noise of a great tumult. He has kindled fire on it and its branches are broken. So it was green and alive and then obviously if its branches are breaking when a tree his branches are breaking it is not doing well.

It is dead. So >> it is dry green to really Yeah. >> It can set on fire and not only set on fire, be burned. When something is green, it doesn't burn well. >> Mm- Yep. >> That's why when we have droughts Ooh. Oo. Okay. When we have droughts, when we're low on the living water, we're more susceptible to fire. And you know that fire isn't only a symbol for God, but there is also false fire, a fire that destroys. you have to make sure that we're we always are always filled with the living water Jesus Christ because then the fire God's fire that consumes and the false fire doesn't have any power over us.

>> We need to be alive. >> Yeah. We need to be we need to be we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit like the apostles were in Acts and um >> having that holy fire. I'm not going to get into that because I know we have that discussion coming up but um there's a big difference between the false and the true and you can see that a lot happening today. And I'm not going to lie, living in Africa you can see that every day. There's so many different pastors who claim that they have that pi fire and you know, holy fire, holy fire, holy fire.

And you have to really know the difference because if you're not careful, you can either be blessed or you can be cursed. There's there's both. And so um just having the spiritual discret the spiritual understanding it will help in knowing between the false and the true. >> There's only one kind of absolutely true fire >> that is lifech changing in a positive way. But you know both the false fire and the true fire have destroying properties. >> Exactly. >> The true fire >> depends on what >> destroys evil.

>> But it >> harmless to those who are filled with God. And the false fire is just another one of Satan's deceptions. So it is evil against evil. It's like, "Oh, you're destroying things, you know." And what does the Bible say? It says, "A house divided against itself cannot stand." So then we know that this false fire is going to be consumed >> in the lake of fire at the very end of the days, you know. And I this is just like, wow. I I love this. And also, I like what um Brother Terry put in the chat.

I just I'm just kind of, you know, eyeing that. And he said, "Hallelujah. The living water quenches the false destroying fire." And I think it is super important, especially now in the end of days. Like we know that the second beast coming out of the earth is going to have fire coming down from heaven. And we need to be filled with the living water so that this fire has no power over us because deceptions will come. But God is coming too. >> Reminds me of a fire truck >> to be filled with the water to quench out the bad fire.

And it it gives us the truth. It goes back to us as human beings. We set bonfires to relax and enjoy in the in the autumn and have fun in the fall. But then there are families and houses. And it can show us if we do not have if we cannot make that connection, we can't have the living fire in us because we either have to have a living fire or have a a destroying fire, you know. >> Yep. Okay, guys. Guys, we I we do have to go back to uh Exodus, but this is really making me think of something. Think about in the New Testament where it talks about being baptized both with water and with the spirit which identifies as fire.

>> Oh >> Oh wow. >> That makes sense why both are so essential. >> Yeah, definitely. we need to be on fire with the right things, on fire with the true fire, >> but at the same time we need to have the water to be drowning out other fire >> other than the true fire. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. >> Other spirits drowning out other spirits. Okay. Should we go back to Exodus though? >> Let's go back to Exodus before in our group, guys. So, every everybody out there, this is what happens. >> Rabbit trail. Rabbit trail.

>> Rabbit trail. >> All right. So, we did the burning bush. Should we look at pillar of fire? That's That's next, right? >> Let's please. Let's do that. Yes. What um chapter is that in Exodus? >> Um we have Exodus 13 21. Let's see. >> Okay. Kazia, do you want to read that? Exodus 13 21- 22. Yeah, sure. >> Sweet. >> And the Lord was going before them in a pillar of cloud by day to lead them on the way and in a pillar of fire by night to not take away the pillar of cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night from the presence of the people.

You know something back at the burning bush that strikes me >> is that why why did God appear as fire as a fire that was not consuming the burning bush to catch Moses' attention? Right? It drew Moses over. Okay, wait. What is going on? And then God was able to have a conversation with him. It caught Moses' attention here. The purpose seems like it's to guide like so pillar of fire by night that would be very very visible. The >> oh yeah >> idea here is to be seen to be able to lead and guide the people away from Egypt.

Away from bondage. >> Yeah. In darkness. Away from bondage of Egypt towards freedom. Right. God's goal, it seems like, is to be as visible as possible, to not leave them, not leave them stranded anywhere to use this fire to guide them. That's what I'm saying so far. >> Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light into my path. >> He did not take away the pillar of cloud. Wow. No, it stayed there. As far as I'm aware, it also stayed with them. Now, I could be wrong. Correct me if I'm wrong, but it could also I think it stayed the whole time they were wandering for the 40 years.

And I think that's Michaela. Is that is that correct? I believe that's >> seems like it. I think so. >> Yeah. Yeah. I I I think that is correct. I don't remember exactly >> Also, wait, wasn't didn't it like move between when the Egyptians were pursuing them? Didn't it move between the children of Israel and Egyptians? So, it like >> wasn't it fire on one side and like darkness on the other? >> Yeah. Oh. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Okay, we have to look at that. >> Exodus 14, I think. >> Wow. Exodus 14:24.

>> Our bodies are >> Exodus 14 truth. Yes. >> Verse 20 and 19. I'm going to quickly read those. So that's Exodus 14 19 to 20. And the angel of God who went before the camp of Israel moved and went behind them. And the pillar of cloud went from before them and stood behind them. So it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel. Thus it was a cloud and darkness to one, and it gave light by night to the other, so that one did not come near the other all that night. >> Oh my goodness.

Wow. That's just amazing. That's just mindblowing. >> How can you have darkness on one side and light on the other? >> And something that I do want to like I do want to talk about. >> Exactly. but also how it's being perceived. Number one, but also God gave the Egyptians chance and chance and chance and chance and chance again. And what did Pharaoh say? He said, "Who is Yahweh?" He's like, "Ah, we don't we don't care. This is not important." Like, >> we have our own gods. They felt safe in the will of their god.

Oh, wow. But then actually this is just immediately making me think of >> the first story we looked at. There's the king and he is completely going against God, right? >> Uhhuh. >> But he was he was given a lot of chances and here >> he saw he saw for himself what the fire did in that story or what happened to the people who chose to rely on God. And at the end of that story, he's going, "Wow, okay, there is no god like Yahweh." Before he'd been like Pharaoh going, "What god can deliver you from my hand?"

>> But >> yes, that's took that opportunity. >> Whereas the Egyptians saw, they saw all plagues. They saw how the uh Israelites were protected and they still went hunting them. Okay, I'm sorry. I just realized something. >> I just realized something. Okay, >> what? >> So, you know how those warriors who were binding Isaac, not Isaac, Shadrach, Mishach, and Abedneo, they fell down dead when they were faced with the fire. Whereas the Hebrew boys, they went in and they did not get burned. Okay. Oo.

Okay. Okay. You know, the Israelites went through the Red Sea. They went through the water. The Egyptians, >> they got taken out by the water. And the Hebrews were all right going through. I did not see that before. >> Wow. Wow. Okay. Moment of silence. Can I just say something on that right there? Um, you know, that is just powerful. The Isla, the water, the living water. >> Can I Can I say something here? >> Um, if y'all want to like look this up for all of you in the chat, Isaiah 43:2. Isaiah 43:2 that says, I'm reading from the New King James Version, when you pass through the waters, I will be with you and through the rivers, they shall not overflow you.

When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, nor shall the flame scorch you. Guys, that this is this is one of God's explicit promises. He says, "Whether fire or water, >> these two elements that are in opposition to each other, >> you will not be hurt going through either one." >> Michaela's mind blown. >> Yes, I see. Okay, I'm speechless. Wow. No. Yeah, it seems like Okay, this might be off a little bit, but I do want to comment. God really likes contrast. He likes a bit of drama, honestly.

I mean, fire in darkness, um, a unconsumed unconsuming fire and then being able to survive and thrive through both water and fire. it doesn't get more dramatic than that. >> No, it doesn't. I like um Nicole Curtis in the YouTube chat. She said, "Death by water or cleansed by water. The choice is ours." >> Die in the water like the Egyptians or get cleansed in the water like the Hebrews. And for them that was a symbol of baptism. So, and then we have the flood first before the Okay. Okay. This is Wow.

>> That's coming. >> Oh, >> Only those in the ark are going to make it through that water. We're safe. Only those in the ark with the shak. >> And then what did what happened right after what happened right after the flood? Sacrifice. >> Noah built an altar. >> Sacrifice. >> The fire. Again. Yeah. Water and fire. Yeah. This is a this is a a a what do you call it? This is a a a duo that you see like all through scripture. It's like okay fire water fire water. It's funny because these two elements like fire water quenches fire.

Like fire can't exist where water is. >> But Jesus is like in Hebrews I think it's 124. Hebrews 12:4. Don't quote me. But our God is a consuming fire. And then Jesus says, "I'm the water of life." >> Hebrews 12:29. >> Thank you. >> Yeah, it you would think that is such a an oxymoron like uh how can he be both water lifegiving and consuming fire? But it it's both. then they're not in opposition to each other. They collaborate somehow. And no one but God could do that. >> And sometimes and and um someone in the chat just recently in the YouTube chat, they said um sometimes wildfires are good for nature.

Like they actually promote growth and they promote new life. And that just makes me think, okay, when self is cut out by the fire, then we need the water so we can begin growing as a new Christian. I don't know. >> Wow, >> that's such a good point. That is very such a good point. And um um I remember I remember here in Africa in the Serengeti, they burned the whole thing down. And uh the first time I ever passed there, I was like, "Mom, mom, mom, stop the car. There's a fire. What are they doing?

Like there's no food for the animals and all of that." And my mom told me, you know, they're burning so that new grass can grow so the animals can have food to eat. And you know, God does that for us. He may bring us a trial that will burn us down and then all of a sudden he pours the living water on us and then we just blossom like like we blossom like we've never seen before >> more plentifully than we could have ever imagined. You know, actually, I think that really goes along with the next instance in the Exodus where there's the mountain and there's the sanctuary with fire.

>> I think that actually really goes Can you uh what's the scripture reference for that? >> Yeah, I'm working on it. Um >> the mountain of fire. Where exactly is that? Um, when the >> I think it should be >> or 19. Let's see. >> Ex I think Exodus 20. Um yeah, it is Exodus 20 when um yeah, Exodus 20 is the ten commandments and Exodus 19 is where we have the mountain turning like not turning into fire but looking like fire. We have Exodus 19:18. Now Mount Si was completely in smoke because the Lord descended upon it in fire.

Its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace and the whole mountain quakd greatly. >> Wow. I can I I really don't want to keep bringing prophecy into this, but >> no, >> there is you do >> another a counterfeit fire fiery mountain. >> Remember Babylon where God says in Isaiah, I'm going to make you a burnt out mountain and I'm going to roll you off into the cliffs. And what what happened of the Lord? >> God gave the Israelites the Ten Commandments on this fiery mountain. >> He made a covenant with >> strange times and laws.

He made a covenant with them. Oh wow. >> Are we seeing a pattern >> where in the end someone's going to try to make a >> I'm seeing something. My eyes are opening. >> Do I have to be more clear? Am I too vague? >> Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Okay. >> Keep going. >> Okay. This mountain is rolled off off the cliffs. And you remember what Jesus said about anyone who causes one of these little ones to stumble. It would be better for them to have a millstone hung around their neck and for them to be thrown into the sea.

Let me let me check the YouTube chat. Is anything clicking for people? >> I I'm seeing it. I'm seeing the counterfeit mountain and how they're making a covenant, making new laws, >> counterfeit laws to God's and laws. >> Yeah, >> it is so powerful. >> And God's like, "No, no, you you can't do this. I'm gonna toss you into the sea. You can't do this. >> Can't go any more deeper than that. It's so clear. >> I'm checking the chat. >> Michaela, what are you thinking? Michaela, what are you thinking?

>> I'm going back to the original story with Nebuchadnezzar. Are you seeing something? Where >> I'm seeing something. Okay. I'm seeing >> Who is going to be destroyed by the fire when there's the choice about who to bow down to? There were two things destroyed by that fire. Number one. Mhm. The military force that was casting them into the fire. And number two, okay, girl, girls, sorry, the force that was binding them by command of the king. And instead of the Hebrews being burnt up, that was destroyed and God appeared in the midst of the fire with them.

This is really >> really close to like the death decree in the end of times. It's like, "All right, you're you're not going to bow down to the image of the beast, so we're just going to like unal alive you." And God's like, "Okay, no, no, no. And he appears with us. Second coming >> in that fiery trial with us. >> I don't know. >> Before Michaela, >> go ahead. Uh >> oh. >> You right in. Can I say >> I think I got knocked out. Sorry. >> Oh, you're back. You're back. >> That second Yeah, I'm back.

Um, that second >> Are you on mute, Cazilla? >> Okay, I'm back. Sorry. >> Yes, you're back. >> Okay. Sorry. >> Sorry. Technical difficulties everyone. >> So, my mom played for us story a few years ago um about uh there's a group of people I just she made a story about the end times and then put it toward the end. And because the people did not go to the Sunday law and didn't follow it, they were sent to jail. And when they were sent to jail, there was this lady and her death sentence was to be killed to be electrocuted on the And right when the guy was just going to plug in the the cord to electrocute her.

Jesus came back in this story. And I was like when when you were just saying this Melinda about how Jesus will not let us be burnt in the It shows to us that he's always gonna come through for us. even when we feel even when we feel like he's not there, you know, and he's just going to step right in there and he's going to be like, you know what? Hey, devil, get out of the way. These are my children and I'm not going to let them suffer. >> because I was a story you told though. >> And so he's just going to come and save us.

And >> did I not walked out? Yeah. I'm just saying I'm just connecting it to what you were saying. >> Sure. Yeah. >> And that's powerful. Even when we feel the devil is really trying to to put us down, God is always there. And that's something always to remember that God is always there for us. >> He said, "I will be with you even until the very end of the age. Yeah. >> Okay, let's keep going. >> Michaela, what's the next step? We were at the mountain in the sanctuary. I kind of rapid trail us off there.

>> Oh, yeah. Mountain in the sanctuary. >> I think that so when Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I remember where we were. Um, there was the covenant in the midst of fire why I guess we could should go to why maybe why all of this like why did God >> Wait a minute. I'm sorry. >> Catch your attention. >> Hold on. One thing one thing. Okay. >> All right. There was fire on the mountain with the old covenant, right? Because he was making covenant with them. But that covenant is now the old covenant. We are living under a new covenant, right?

Right. >> Yeah. Yeah. So the fire with the old covenant was external and the fire with the new covenant is internal. Jesus in us, our God is a consuming fire. The covenant, the old covenant had external fire. All the sacrifices, you know, the fire, all the all the um all the what are they called? Services, >> everything fire outside. New covenant, everything fire inside. Oh wow. Okay. Yeah, I can see where that's going. Um but yeah, what I'm seeing there is okay. So the purpose in this this old co covenant um establishing the sanctuary um practice God says it was to dwell with them, right?

It was to be with them and be their God. >> Be their God. dwell with them. And then maybe we should go to our next story with fire in the New Testament. >> I just want to go around one more. One more. Oh, girl. Okay. You That's where I was trying to go. I was like, can I just quickly insert No, you turn the fire hose on. This is the fire hydrant. after Jesus died, sacrifices and temple services, they didn't need to be done anymore because Jesus, the sacrificial lamb had been slain for us. So now the external fire, fire on the mountain, fire in the services from the old covenant moved to inside us.

Remember the fire hovered above them individually >> and this power remember you'll be baptized in the water. No, what did you say Michaela? With the spirit and fire. >> Yeah. Baptized by water and the spirit. >> He will baptize you with water and the spirit and then also the spirit and fire. So now this fire is working internally. It's cleansing the selfishness, the root of the problem. It's taking it out. >> Yeah. Matthew 3:11, I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry.

He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. >> Mhm. Someone in the chat said that the only change is the location of the fire. And yes, I I I agree 100%. Instead of the fire being external, the fire is now internal inside us. What does um Jesus say in Matthew? I think he says it, but I could be wrong. He says um so let your light so shine before men. And what what do we know the light in the lamp? Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light into my path. You know, we're supposed to God wants to write the law, his words on our heart.

Do you kind of see where I'm going? You see where I'm going? >> If your word lamp is my feet and a light unto our path, and he wants to write his words in our heart, then the fire is suddenly internal and cleansing us from all unrighteousness. I don't know. I don't >> Yeah, that's two things fire seems to do. Fire purifies. It destroys. It destroys sin. Sin can't be in this perfect fire. But then it also gives light. It catches attention from our attention and it reveals the truth. It stands out in the middle of darkness as a pillar of fire and leads and guides away.

>> I have to say something. Somebody in the chat. Somebody in the chat said, um, Mooney P6026, I'm shouting you out because you said, "We became the temple, so God lives in us now." I Yeah, definitely internal fire there. Remember when Solomon dedicated his temple and the smoke of the Lord filled the whole thing? So, the Levites weren't even able to minister there. God wants to fill this temple. >> This temple right there sitting behind that screen. He wants to fill that temple >> with fire. >> I'm going to give away my sermon here if I keep going.

>> Yeah. Be careful. Be careful. >> I'm trying. >> Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. And someone else just said, sorry, someone else just said that external fire is meant to put the internal fire out. So the false fire that's outside is trying to put that inside out. Trials and temptations, they're trying to battle against the fire that's inside of us. >> But we need to be safe in the will of God, just like the Hebrews were safe in the will of God so that the external fire can't hurt us. >> Okay, I'm sorry.

I'm sabotaging this. No, no, no. Here's the thing. We We've kind of talked about this in previous Sabbath schools studying the Christian art of war. We You just said that the distinction is the will of God. We ourselves self cannot carry out the will of God. That's why we need the fire in us. this Holy Spirit fire in us to be carrying that out. And that that spirit fire destroys any other kind of any misrepresentation. First off, these external fires and also our personal attempts at carrying out this will.

It destroys anything to do with self. Should we um go to >> Let's do it. >> Romans 8 9 and 10 and 13. Um, I'll go ahead and read. But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. Now, if anyone does not have the spirit of Christ, he is not his. And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin. For the spirit is life because of righteousness. And then down to 13. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.

>> I'm going to have to keep my mouth shut because this is literally the core of my sermon. >> Oh dear. Okay. Uh tell me want me to stop. >> Excuse me. >> Tell me to stop if you need to. Tell me to stop if you need to. >> Go ahead. I need to >> Okay. Okay, your perspective is valuable. >> Okay. Um, so we have we have all these stories. We have Neb the story with Nebuchadnezzar and the three Capri boys where they would not give up on their idea of who God was. They would not give up on serving only God, not bowing down to these false false things.

And they were able to walk in the middle of fire with Then we have the burning bush, the pillar of fire and the whole sanctuary system of God catching our attention, leading and guiding and protecting us through the wilderness and wanting to dwell with us. Wanting to dwell with us. And then we have God wanting to dwell in us. as fire as purifying lightgiving Uh, is Kazya here? Kazya is I think she Yeah, she's here. >> So, those are some of my summing up thoughts. You guys talk. >> Okay. I can because yeah, I'm really interested in hearing what you have to say because >> if I say something >> about about what exactly because I got knocked out so I didn't exactly hear the thought.

>> We're kind of going back over all the stories we've mentioned. King Nebuchadnezzar, the burning bush, the sanctuary, the mountain, Jesus in us, the fire, any thoughts, >> and everybody else listening, please put your thoughts and your connections. Put them in the chat. I'm keeping an eye on the chat. >> I will shout you out. Um Um I can just say there's such a powerful connection. There's a very powerful connection there because we're coming from the Old Testament to the New Testament and we're kind of finishing it up, right?

And we're starting where Jesus started with them in the mountain and in the sanctuary and everywhere else where he was and coming to where he finally finishes up the sanctuary and now the sanctuary lives in us. You know, you know he still is. >> Don't you know that you're a temple of the Holy Spirit? >> Exactly. Don't you know you are a temple of the living God? And that shows us that even if we um think that the sanctuary is not in us, it is in us because we can see in Acts how the disciples the fire came upon them.

And that doesn't have to mean that there was a fire inside them internally, but it was showing an example of the fire in them that was internally because it shows us that he was living in them. And from then on, they no longer needed to go to the sanctuary and give the sacrifices. They just needed to pray and just know God was in them internally and that he could hear them spiritually. And him living in us gives us the opportunity to fight self again and be able to be cleansed with the living water and be able to douse off the counterfeit fire with the living water.

Him living in us gives us that opportunity. And if it wasn't for him living in us, where would we be today? Where would we be today? So connecting all of those together, it shows us that Christ from the beginning up to the end of time, he will always >> live in us. He will always be our fire. That's what I can say about that. Okay. I was just thinking about something else we've talked about. We were not planning on talking about water at all. that just happened. So that that was awesome. But something I'm saying the goal kind of the goal here.

So the ultimate goal is for God, God wanting to be with us, wanting us to be able to be in his presence, in the presence of this perfect fire and survive and thrive. So the process seems to be so the water and the fire in the presence of the water and the fire self dies. self. Anything to do with self dies. But at the same time, the water and the fire are giving life, or giving inspiration, are giving passion, is giving light. Light in general, and helping us just grow and truly see in our relationship with Christ.

So, yeah. Yeah, and I'm seeing um Hold on, I lost it. But I want to shout out All right. Well, >> somebody said, >> "Oh, I think it was I think Hold on. I want to say one more thing. Elena Ruiz 73. She said Moses was drawn out of the water and met God in the fire." And I think that's that's a really profound realization because as a baby, Moses was taken out of the water. He was saved from the water and met God in the fire. And that shows the mercy of God because he didn't have to like Moses was put in the water to protect him from enemies and he was drawn out of the water to protect him from the danger in the water cuz the Nile has crocodiles.

You know, I used to live in Florida and you could not go swimming anywhere. Like don't touch a puddle. Okay, not that but like you know there are crocodiles everywhere or alligators and nuh-uh. Yeah. Taken out of the water, protected, put in the water to be protected, taken out of the water to be protected and then met God. And then he was able to go and face the king and was protected by the fire of God. And then it happened again actually just with a bunch more people >> walking through the Red Sea going up to the mountain top to meet God in the fire.

And when he came down his face was shining. His face was shining for all the people to see. he was resurrected and went to be with God in heaven. >> yeah, it says that in Isude, I think. >> Oh, Hebrews. Yeah. New Testament, >> maybe. I don't know. >> Somewhere. >> Somewhere. Google it. >> Awesome. Well, >> Should we close out in prayer? >> Let's do that. >> Do you want to pray or Kazia? Kazia, will you pray us out, please? Yeah, sure. No problem. Let us bow our heads for prayer. Our dearly father, Lord, we thank you so much for your love for us.

Thank you for blessing us, for taking care of us, for guiding us. Lord, it is an amazing Sabbath today. And we pray that through everything that we have been reading and studying that you will fill us with your fire, with your holy fire. Thank you so much for helping us to learn more about the fire in the Bible and that we may learn more about you through each and every step of the way. Lord, I pray that as we get ready to go to the different programs that you will bless us and take care of us and bless us to learn more about your word.

Thank you so much in Jesus name we pray and believe. Amen. >> All right. We hope you've been blessed by um the Sabbath school. >> Um it was not at all like Christian Art of War with First Lady and Pastor, but we hope you are still blessed by it. >> Um I just want to say one thing about the sermon. We've talked about the fire and God God in the fire, but the sermon is going to be about how to come into connection with that fire. So, I don't know. Stay tuned. Definitely. >> Yes. Do not miss the sermon.

God's holy word declares that the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. And though marred by sin, creation still speaks of the wisdom, power, and beauty of the creator. God made nature for us to enjoy. And there's so much to explore on God's green earth. But only in relatively recent times has mankind taken the plunge to explore the deep blue sea. With the invention of scuba diving came the wonderful possibilities of seeing and studying the underwater world. Scuba diving is probably the only way to visit another world without leaving planet Earth.

It's nothing short of spectacular. But with so much heavy gear, it's probably the most cumbersome of all the sports. There are so many things that are vital in order to have a successful dive. You need a mask to see, fins to propel, a wet suit to keep you warm, a BCD to keep you buoyant, weights to keep you down, a tank that holds your air, a regulator that gives you breath, and all different kinds of computers and gauges to keep you informed so that you don't do anything dangerous. It's super cumbersome, but absolutely worth it.

Now, there are many things you need to know before you go scuba diving, but you might find it surprising that the number one and most important rule is simply this. Don't hold your breath. Whatever happens, just keep breathing. And as long as you're breathing, you can deal with any difficulty below. You see, the natural instinct of land creatures like us is to hold your breath underwater. So, once our head goes below the surface, our mind tells us to stop breathing. And many people find it difficult to overcome this mind block.

Not only that, but there's so many spectacular things to see down below that will literally take your breath away. But holding your breath is probably the most dangerous thing you can do. It could lead to a ruptured lung, a panic attack, or an uncontrollable urge to shoot up to the surface, thus causing the bends. And so if you ever get the chance to experience the scuba life, just remember, keep breathing. And as with any difficulty underwater. The same is true for spiritual life above the surface.

Prayer is the breath of the soul. And just as we're to breathe without ceasing, the Bible calls us to pray without ceasing. You see, when you breathe, you're both taking in sustaining oxygen as well as releasing the cellular waste product of carbon dioxide. You're receiving that which is good and releasing that which is bad. This is the same thing that prayer does. Prayer is the means with which we receive God's blessings and unload life's burdens. It is the avenue by which we give our problems to God and that God gives us his peace and his power.

You see, the purpose of prayer is not to inform God, but rather it is the means by which God transforms us. Many people find life so hard because they're not breathing the breath of prayer. They are spiritually drowning in a sea of sorrow, struggling in an ocean of trouble. When all the while the breath of prayer is right in their mouth. So remember, when life is overwhelming and you feel like you can't keep your head above the water, just keep praying. When finances are low and the bills are high, just keep breathing.

When your kids are acting crazy and your spouse is acting lazy, just keep breathing. When the current of your sinful flesh is pulling you into forbidden waters, just keep breathing. Just keep praying. And as you do, God will give you the wisdom and the courage to change the things that you can change. He'll give you the peace and comfort to accept the things that you cannot change. And he'll give you the wisdom to know the difference. And in every single situation, he will bring a change in your heart.

And when we come to trust God, both above and below the water, in the highs and in the lows of life, he will show us things we've never seen before. He will do through us things that have never been done before. And he will take us to places no one has ever been before. And finally, one day, very soon, we will be able to leave this blue and green planet below to explore the heavenly realities of God's wonderful kingdom. And then we'll be breathing in the very atmosphere of heaven itself. And that, my friends, is a world you surely don't want to miss.

Heat up here. Welcome back living manage family. Happy Sabbath. Um for those who did not get to put in where you're from viewing from before Sabbath school, please you can do that now. And um if you miss Sabbath school, please please go back and watch it. I seriously had an awesome time and it was literally fire. It was literally So, let me see here. Um, yeah. Also, we have the sermon coming up in a little while. And please think about how these two parts of the service are connected because um we're hoping that they will go along with each other.

Well, we have Freeport, New York. Yeah, living around a church is so incredible how many countries in the world view living in a church. It's really insane. We have Uh Tennessee and Toronto. Uh we have Jerry in San Diego and Texas. Yeah. All across the US, all across North America. It's insane. um to see more about what Lyning Mana has going on, we have literally so many things going on during the week. both the teens, both all sorts of groups going on in Living Mana to fellowship and just interact, get to know each other better and grow grow together as a church community.

Um to stay connected, we have actually a uh phone number here. You can text Loc to 8552074107. And this will just give you reminders during the week for okay this is going on now. Um oh this meeting just started come and join us. And because during the week we just have so much going on even when we want to go we can tend to forget. So this is very helpful in keeping up to date. Um we also have Mighty Networks. Smarty Networks is um especially for those viewing outside of North America who can't get texts.

Um writing networks is our way of staying connected. So that's where all of our smaller groups are where all of our all of our members and others interact. And uh one of the incredible groups that we have on living mana is MC kids. I know for my sister that in kids um the kids group they have a blast. So they study really deep concepts in the Bible but all through like the kids lens. So it's very very insightful really. There's so many different perspectives I hear on it and it's mind-blowing for me and for others and to hear um the kids come back and say the younger kids say, "Oh, we studied this and this was so amazing."

So, that's really cool. To um learn more about the kids group, just text um kids to 8552074107 or email loose kids at living.urch and they have Sabbath school at like 11:30 central time. So can come and check it out. um for virtual office hours to meet with pastor and discuss if you have a question if just uh need to discuss something with him you can set up an appointment by emailing Patrice at living mana.live live. Now, we also have since it's youth Sabbath, I got to advertise teams. Um, we have an awesome teens group at Living Mana.

For me personally, teens has been life-changing. Honestly, I can honestly say it's been life-changing. I can see how I am personally growing in my relationship with Christ. And I am also growing in that I feel I have a role and connection to play in the church for myself. And I also have met fellow youth who are some of the most passionate and incredible people I have met when it comes to Bible study and growing closer to God and with sharing that that sharing that passion. So, I personally cannot recommend LOCs more.

Um, and I also want to say this, today is our first birthday. One year ago today was our first Friday Night Light meeting. So, that um is one of our current meetings we have going on. We meet um currently we are meeting for vespers on Friday night Friday nights at let's see here 8 Eastern time um which would be 7 central. We also had a uh Thursday morning or afternoon uh meeting for more study and also for just interacting as teens and for closer. Um so if you would like more information and if you are a teen or know a teen who might be interested in checking this out sometime, please email teens living mana.urch church for Mortonville.

Okay. We also have our hurricane relief fund. We are um working with ADRA. So, if you would like to help aid in help the people in Jamaica and with all this destruction going on, please uh send your uh donation to um 12501 Old Columbia Pike, Silver Spring um 20904 and check out www.adra.org. or and text hurricane to 18552074107 Um next we have to a group here on living mana um business directory to find out more information about this. This looks interesting. Um text biz connect b i z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z c z o n ect at living manana.urch.

Uh we also have other groups on living mana. We have hangouts and this is to interact just kind of hang out and have fun I think more within the church. So, we have a watch party going on. It looks like um House of David happening happening um on Zoom at 6:30 p.m. Central time. November 2nd that already happened November 16th tomorrow and November 30th. So to learn more information about this, text hangouts to 8552074107 or you can scan uh this QR code here on the left side to join the hangout space in Mighty Networks.

We also have our glow groups and I've heard a lot about these as a way to connect and just interact. Another way to connect to interact with the church family. Um you can sign up on mighty networks and you can also email groups at living.urch for more. Um, another group we have on Living Manai is GEMS. Uh, okay. Yeah, GEMS. So, this is our adult Sabbath school and they meet at 6:30 p.m. Fridays. To get more info and sign up, text gems to 8552074107. now to give your tithe and offerings um uh through to LLC you can go to Adventist giving click on the upper right corner there uh to give your donation and um choose living mana church and you'll just put in how much how much for tithe how much for offering and then you can also if you would rather mail in a check.

You can do that. Um, just put in um what part is for tithe, what part is for offering. You can send that to PO Box 428, Owens, Crossroads, Alabama 35763. So yeah, um I'm very grateful for this opportunity to share with you all today. I'm hoping that Sabbath is and will be a serious blessing for all of you. Um so just bow your heads and pray with me. Dear heavenly father, um thank you. Thank you so much for living. Thank you for the ability to interact and grow together and to share share what inspires us in your word and inspires us about you with each other and with the world.

Please um please spill with your Holy Spirit and please um be with the rest of the service uh the prayer section and the sermon. Please do you let this guide us and help us to grow and share this passion we have for you with the world. In your name I pray. Amen. Happy Sabbath everyone. I could feel the ground shake beneath my feet. It shakes this rock, even this solid concrete. A reminder that the enemy is always near. A feeling of loneliness, fear, and despair. The darkness says there's no way out.

No escape, no relief, just worry and doubt. And when the fire comes, and it will come, we must remind ourselves what power lives in you and me. I can feel the flames. Do you ever feel that intense heat? The stuff in your life that's real and loud and brings that feeling of defeat. You see, we always want to know what's just beyond the flames. What just lies ahead. But Jesus calls us to something different instead. To stand surrounded. to stand amidst the fire and to know that he is near. To trust that he knows what we don't, that he is our deliverer and he will deliver us.

But even if he doesn't, I'll still stand. Even if he doesn't, I will not fall. I'll count the joy in every battle because I know where Jesus will be. He'll be standing amidst the fire in the flames right beside me. He is God Emmanuel, God with us. And he reigns far above because he who was and is and will be is with me through it all. And I know I will never never be alone. I spoke a word, you were singing over before I took a breath. You breathe your life in me. You have been so so kind to me. Oh, the overwhelming neverending reckless love of God.

Oh, it chases me down. Fight till I'm found. Leaves the 99. I couldn't earn it. I don't deserve it. Still you give yourself away. reckless love of God. Yeah. >> I was your foe. Still your love for me. You have been so so good to me. You've been so so kind to me. Oh, the overwhelming, neverending, reckless love. Oh, it chases me down. fight still I'm found please 99 I couldn't earn it I don't deserve it still you give yourself away all the overwhelming reckless love of God there's no shadow you won't light up mountain you won't climb up coming after There's no wall you won't kick down.

Lie you won't tear down. Coming after me. There's no shadow you won't light up. Mountain you won't climb up. Coming after me. There's no wall you won't kick down. High you won't tear down. Coming after reckless love of God. Oh, it chases me down. Fight till I'm found. Please night and I couldn't earn it. I don't deserve it. Still you give yourself I'll be overwhelming. Here at Living Mana, we bear each other's burdens. When you need support or prayer, when you're feeling discouraged or alone or anxious, you don't have to face life struggles alone.

Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in our time of need. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. Hi LC family. Welcome to prayer time. We want to welcome you all to the prayer time for today. And I will be your host Kazia Matanda and we will have our host Jocelyn and my sister Hadassa. Michaela's sister is Jocelyn and my sister is Hadassa. Um, so we're going to welcome you all. Remember to put your prayer requests in the chat also along with your pray and don't forget to text pray.

Remember to keep praying for those out there in the LC family around the world. Okay, Joel, I'm gonna hand it over to you to do our shoutouts. Okay. Um, happy Sabbath everyone. Um, okay. Oh, happy Sabbath. I see you in the chat. Um, Majesta and Miss Jerry Harvard. Miss Jerry, happy Sabbath. And, uh, also happy Sabbath to Miss Amra and J Ary. And um I also see happy Sabbath to Terrence. Um thank you everyone. And yeah, do you want to say anything? >> So much Jocelyn putting in your praise reports and we will continue to shout out to you as we go through.

We're gonna go to our praise reports now. And we have some powerful praise reports from different people that have come. And I'm going to start with a praise report from sister Lawrence. She says, "Thank you for praying for my dear friend and sister Marie An from Sitzerland. Yesterday she was insulted in public by someone who attends all the churches. And she's being harassed by constant demands from other from another non-believer who always gets herself into extricable situations, always with good reasons and no one else to help.

My friend is getting older and no longer feels able to face these problems. She's doing what she can, taking these situations to heart for months, but she's not able to say no when she gets stuck. Lord, intervene. Give her strength. Inspire her. she no longer has your peace. Restore her peace and serenity to her to protect her in the name of Jesus. Amen. And um historian says, "Thank you so much for your prayers. She's just received news from Mary an lady who insulted her came to her for reconciliation.

Can we say amen to that?" And the other lady accepted that Mary Anne wouldn't come today. Still on an ongoing issue, but we'll hope that Mary will have strength to say no when needed. Um she says all of you thank she says a message to all of you. Thank you from the bottom of my heart for my dear ones for your prayers and those of your friends. Please thank them for me. It teaches it touches me deeply and reassures me because I see how much the Lord loves us even though we even through people we don't know.

Have a rich blessed and beneficial Sabbath. We also have another praise report from Sharon U. Mrs. Sharon Fay Johnson. Praise God, my vehicle will be fixed and the warranty will cover all the repairs with zero deductible. Also, the warranty will reimburse me back up to $200 in the towing fees. So, my only out- of-pocket expense is $50. My my vehicle is expected to be ready by Friday. Isn't that amazing? God definitely always has an answer to our prayers. Um, we have another one. Praise God. The doctor's assistant told me that my mamogram report is normal and to share to shred that second letter because I was not supposed to receive a second letter.

Amen. Another one says, "Praise God. I got a chance to witness my neighbor's wife witness to my neighbor's wife about the importance of prayer and knowing God's word. She was so happy and I showed her last Sabbath's video." We have another one. Praise God. She and her husband offered to drive me about an hour and a half to Cleveland. um Minnesota to pick up my vehicle in Cleveland, Minnesota and not to worry about paying them gas money for the ride. Thank you, Lord Jesus. Thank you, Lord. Thank you all my dear brothers and sisters for praying with me and for me to petition at God's throne of grace and mercy to obtain his righteous favor for his abundant blessings in Christ Jesus name.

Amen. And amen. Continue to send in your praise reports. Um, we want to thank you all for coming and we want to praise God for these praise reports and praise him for blessing us in every single um way of our lives and blessing us with the opportunity to witness, blessing him with um helping those to come for forgiveness and also for those who weren't able to um put their praise reports that they will also be filled with the Holy Spirit and know that God is there for you and he is constantly constantly hearing our requests of prayer towards him.

Um I will now have my um sister read the prayer requests and um then we will go into intercessory prayer. Any prayer requests will be continue to be sent in and we'll continue to say them. Uh uh Kzia, could I just add something really quick? >> Yeah, go ahead. >> Okay, so um happy I also see Miss Lisa Clark and Miss Joanne Steven. Happy Sabbath. Miss Job happy to the prayer requests. And as you continue to receive prayer requests, we will continue to to the prayer requests. And as we continue to receive prayer requests, we'll continue to say them.

>> Happy Sabbath, everyone. Um, Rob says, "My great an uncle Kenneth E. Williams passed away on Thursday and was found in his car deceased that evening. Pray for the Kendricks, Bullsby, and Thompson families in our time of birth. We'll be praying for you guys." And Monip prayer requests for you guys. And Monip's prayer request says for the Holy Spirit to give us fresh oil for an awakening of the people of the earth to encounter the Lord as the days are becoming more evil. We'll be praying for that our churches all living through wars and conflict.

Pray for brother Taj and his family. Empty may be from paranoia and mental confusion. Restore sely and the year years the locust has eaten. Brother Grimson my wife Muriel struggling with medical heart condition. We'll be praying for we'll be prepare we'll be praying for all of those prayer requests that keep on coming in. I'm sorry if I can't say all of them. I do not have the chat up on my screen. But I pray that the Lord has received each of those prayer requests and that he will continue to receive for each and every one of us.

Um Justin, are there any more shout outs you want to give just before we pray? >> Uh sure. Um I also see there's uh um flap Rob which um happy Sabbath to you. And I also see Jean Jeina Rrower. Is that how you say it? Um hopefully I said it right. Um happy Sabbath to you also. And then I also see Jacqueline Clark. So happy Sabbath to you was Jacqueline. Um and I think that's all the shout outs I see. I um Yeah, I think that's it. Okay. Um, now we're going to do intercessory prayer as we finish up our prayer time for today.

Thank you so much for joining us. And I will now have my sister pray for each and every one of the prayer requests that have been given. All right, let's pray. Kind and loving father in heaven, we praise you for everything that you Tear so sweet to trust in Jesus. us to take him at his word and just to rest upon his promise. Yes, Lord. us to know the saith the Lord. How I trust him and how I prove him or and Jesus preious Oh, for grace to trust him more. My hope is built on nothing less. Yes, God.

and Jesus blood and I dare not trust the sweetest frame but holy lean on Jesus name. Oh Christ the solid rock I stand all the ground is sinking sand. All of the ground is Jesus Jesus why how we want to trust you. How we've proved you are and Oh for grace him more. Oh mighty God. Thank you Lord. Hallelujah. Forgive us where we have not trusted you. And may we make a decision tonight to put our trust. if I if I settle, even there your hand will guide me. Your right hand will hold me fast. If I say surely the darkness will hide me and the light become night around me, even the darkness will not be dark to you.

The night will shine like the day for darkness is as light to you. For you created my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. I know that full well. My frame was not hidden from you. When I was made in the secret place, when I was woven together in the depths of the earth, All the days ordained for me were written in your book before one of them came to be. How precious to me are your thoughts, God.

How vast is the sum of them. Were I to count them, they would outnumber the grains of sand. When I awake, I am still with you. Good morning everyone. Happy Sabbath and welcome to Locosc Youth Sabbath. Um today my sermon is a very special one. I'll be sharing my personal testimony and I hope that you'll enjoy it. So, let's jump straight into prayer and get started. Father in heaven, I want to um ask for your presence here right now and wherever else we are or wherever we may be watching this. Jesus, I want to ask that it it's not me speaking today, but that it's your words coming through me um like a fountain of fresh water.

Jesus, I ask that this message will touch the hearts that it needs to touch. Jesus, please let this message go through the world and find those that you prepared it for. In your name, I Okay. If you guys looked at your phone one day and you saw a text message from Jesus, what would you expect him to say to you? Or if he sat down next to you, what's the first thing you'd expect him to say? You know, most of us were like, "Oh, Jesus is going to say something hopeful to me or I hope he's going to like encourage me or something."

But did you know that we as a church in our day and age actually have a um a message for us in to our very day and age and it's not a positive one. Let's go to Revelation 3 15 and 16 where Jesus says, "I know your works that you are neither cold nor hot. I could wish you were cold or hot. So then, because you are lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will vomit you out of my mouth." But this isn't even all. In the following verses, Christ goes on sternly detailing the rest of our faults. He's like, "Y'all are blind and you guys are you guys are, you know, lacking gold refined in the fire."

And he's like, "Come into me and buy all these things." But did you know that we are the only letter to the church that he doesn't add anything good? Literally nothing. Like even Sardis, the church that was like spiritually dead, like she got like, "Oh, you know, you have people who are in in your church and they're still walking with me." And they got commended for that. But Leodysia doesn't even get a single good thing that Jesus, you know, talks about or mentions. It's just like all bad. It's like, my goodness, what's going on here?

And it seems like, well, you know, we in Lord, we try so hard like every day. It's like, oh, we want to live godly lives and we put all this effort into being good and into being godly and and it's like we don't even get an E for effort. Like, what is going on here? What's wrong? God identifies Leodysia as a spiritually poor church. And apparently spiritually poor is worse than spiritually dead. God says, "I wish that you were either cold or hot." Spiritually dead is good because God can resurrect.

Spiritually hot is good because you are in touch with God. You're connected. but spiritually poor. It doesn't mean that we're all dead or we're all in. It means we're just kind of hanging in the middle somewhere. There's like a middle ground. But there is no middle ground. So, what's wrong? How can we fix this? You know, as a church, we've got many outward forms, but we have minimal inside power. God wants to fill us, we his temples with fire from heaven. But we don't let him. Our faith in him has made him a God who is so small that he will fit in our back pocket where he is the one who created the heavens that we live under and the earth that we live on.

And we forget that and we make him so tiny. And he's like, "Guys, I just want to exercise my power for you." You know, it's it's kind of funny because I like to think of it this way. How does fire how Sorry, now I gave it away. But how does water get warmed up? Well, back in the days of Jesus, you didn't have anything else except fire that you could put it on. So, what does this mean for our lukewarm state in Lisa? Does it mean that we have a little bit of fire? Yeah, we have a little bit of fire, but it's not enough to get the water boiling, and it's not enough to let the water cool down.

Let's keep going. Leysia is not beyond all hope though. Even though we have this condition of not quite dead and not quite alive, God says, "Hey, you know, if you realize that you're spiritually poor, we can definitely work with that." Like if you get, "Hey, I'm not like out of the church, but I'm not like in Jesus. I'm just kind of like in the middle. I'm like in the church but out of Jesus. It's like he's like, "Okay, if you get this, I can work with you." Like I can work with you. He literally calls us blessed.

Matthew 5:3 says, "Blessed are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven." Jesus wants us to realize that we are spiritually poor because when we realize this he can bless us and begin to reveal himself to us. There's a quote that I really like from the book Mount of Blessing. Thoughts from the mount of blessing here on page seven, paragraph one. It says that those who know that they cannot possibly save themselves or of themselves do any righteous action are the ones who appreciate the help that Christ can bestow.

They are the poor in spirit whom he declares to be blessed. You know, if today you're feeling spiritually desolate or you're feeling spiritually poor and you realize, Lord, I'm like on the outside of heaven but on the inside of the church, that's a good news because you can come to Jesus the door and be let in. But you have to realize that you're not in heaven in heaven to understand that you need the door. Let's look at this um this quote from uh testimonies for the church volume 4. Inward pity and true devotion are fast giving place to outward forms.

Pure and undefiled religion is the great need of our church. They should make it an individual work to draw near to God. Self reigns in the heart instead of Christ. Self-will, self-interest, envy, and pride shut out the presence of We really need a door. Now, let me share a quick illustration. You know, I've talked about how we have a lot of outward forms but not much inside power. I want to share this story with you. So, you've probably got your phone like on the coffee table in front of you or in the car next to you or wherever you're watching this from.

And you know how dependent you are on this phone. Like you use it for everything. Like all sorts of things are really like you need this phone. Like you can't live without it. And recently my So this is the thing about my dad. He has a really interesting relationship with his phone. Like he's not dependent on it. Like he just doesn't use it. So sometimes I use it for like you know doing school or like communication. But the other day I had powered off his phone for bedtime and the next morning he was like okay I need my phone.

He grabbed it and ran out for work. And Should we toss out our forms just because they're not filled with the power of God? No, we shouldn't. I mean, I hope you guys said, "No, my dad should not have thrown out his phone." That means you are sane. I'm glad that you said yes. But um should should we should we throw out our forms just because they're not filled with fire? Or should we should we be like, "Okay, what can we do to fill this with fire?" Like, "What can we do to make this effective and powerful and farreaching and worldchanging?"

Because in essence, this is what our religion The faith as it tells us in the Bible, this is not just a oh Lord, I feel good today kind of faith. No, this is a radical faith that changes things. God puts governments in and takes kings out. God isn't a wimp. God does stuff. So, if we see that our forms are missing God power, we need to be like, "How can we get God power? How can we get God power?" So, at this point, we're probably all wondering, how do we get God power? How do we fill our form with fire?

And at this point, I want to share my personal testimony and my personal experience of how um I got my form filled with fire. So, I grew up as like a fourth generation Adventist, right? like I'm very Adventist and I have, you know, I believe in all the fundamentals and everything and I'm very solid on them. And, you know, at 5 years old, I was like, "Oh, you know, I want to be baptized." Like, I was basically raised in like Adventist Amazing Facts media. So, I'm like, "Oh, I want to be baptized."

You know, and I actually went to a prophecy seminar they did um live at our local church at that time and I made a public decision to get baptized and a year later I did. But um I liked reading my Bible. Like I literally loved reading my Bible. I still do. Like I read like oh you know Leviticus and like Deuteronomy, 1 and 2 Samuel, like King David. He's like the best Bible character ever. Like but um you know Jeremiah, Isaiah, all these different Ezekiel like all these books just like fascinated me and I love the Bible.

So, like I would read it till like 2:00 a.m. So, but you know, Satan wasn't happy about that. So, he at like age 10, I got a toxic infection that really slowed me down in my spiritual life. And um yeah, that was really hard. And I I had trauma after that for like years, but God helped me through it and we came through together. And you know, now I'm back on track and I'm really thankful to God for helping me get through that. But you know, when the pandemic hit, you know, my family, we were like, well, we have a lot of time on our hands right now.

So, let's make some changes to how we use it. So, we just started having family worship in the morning and in the evening. and mom and dad stressed personal worship and um just the daily surrender, the daily giving over of self to God and hiding hiding ourselves in Jesus and wearing the robe of We were all young back then. We were like 12 and like I don't know seven and four. But it was it was really like life-changing and a lot of things happened in our family like we had more peace and it was it was just you know my siblings and I like we hardly fought like my mom can testify to that and it was it was a big change but you know when the world returned back to normal kind of the old normal crept back in and we kind of we drifted a little bit and we still had like worship every day but it maybe it wasn't like every single day of the week.

It was like maybe only like five out of seven. But you know, things happen in life. Like God knows that we are butt dust. But definitely he helped us through that again. But, you know, after a couple years of just like like living back in the old carnal way, it was like I sat down and I said, "Okay, God, either you're not working or I'm not working because I have no victory." Like, temptations will come and I will just like fall into them like it was like a water slide with soap on it. Like there wasn't any pause or like because people will say they'll be like okay think before you speak and it's like yeah no that that that doesn't happen like uhuh that applies to like temptation generally.

It was like no oh my siblings annoys me. Oh let me snap out you like and it's like no I didn't even want to do that. Like what just happened? Yeah. Stuff like that. And it was it wasn't fair. Like I was like, Lord, I didn't even have an opportunity to even choose. No, I don't want to do this right now. Like th this can't this can't be fair. Like if you're a fair God, I need a fair chance. Like, you know, like no, that this is something must be off because I would have like on again, off-again victories.

It wasn't like I wasn't a good girl. Like I went to church faithfully and I did, you know, Sabbath school and all the right things. I ate healthy, you know, tofu, broccoli, all these good things. And um you know, but but it just there just was something missing. Like there wasn't there wasn't the filling in the apple pie. Like it was just like crust. And I know some people like just crust, but I was like, "No, I can't deal with just crust. It's too flaky. It's too dry." Like ah it it doesn't work.

It doesn't work. my self-worth because of this, it just kind of went down into the basement except it missed the basement and went straight to the abyss because it was like, "Yeah, you're like a failure. You're you can't do this. It's it's it's all bad. It's all bad bad." I was like, "Oh, I'm trying in vain and I I can't get anywhere. My efforts, they're not doing anything. Like, it's it's just sometimes." And but I want to be like good. like I want to be obeying God. And I'm like, God, what's on?

I need help. And I was like, okay, well, let me go see what where I can get help. Like, I want I want help now. So, I said, "Okay, I'm going to go to I'm going to go to the church members and then kind of ask them like, you know, because like I had questions like I was like, "Okay, how do I know I'm saved? How how do I get saved?" like uh like I didn't even really know what my question was. I was just like this isn't working and I need a solution. So one Sabbath I sat down in adult Sabbath school and I asked a question there was an awkward I mean it seemed awkward to me.

There was an awkward pause. People just kind of like okay what is she trying to do? And I was like, "All right." Um, so I asked my question and I got like four people answered and by the time they were done, I had like seven different answers. And I was like, "Okay, okay, okay. No, this is not this is not working. Like I don't understand." And then I asked like, "Okay, what do you mean by this and this specifically?" And they were like, "Oh, um, this we can't explain this right now because this would take like way longer than we actually have time right now."

And I was like, "Excuse me, what? Like, this is so complicated that you have to like have a whole other conversation and like you're going to have to like take an hour of time to explain this to me. Like, this is about salvation. Like, this is a basic thing in our church. Like, we built like religion is based on salvation, right?" Like, and I was like, "No, no, no, no. This this can't be right. Like, look what's going on here." I was like, "All right, this isn't working. This is not working." I told God, I was like, "All right, Lord.

I'm going to only read the Bible." Like, I want my answer from you. It needs to be 100% I don't want anybody's opinion, anybody's uh thoughts. I want actual truth. Like I want truth. And I actually even stopped reading like any other books on like, oh, how to overcome temptation or stuff like that cuz I was like, you know, I've tried all of this at least once and it's not really working. Like, okay, it works for maybe like a month, but then it's like, I'm too lazy. It's just too much work. And it's like, well, the Bible says that the yoke is easy, right?

And God's burden is light. But that that just wasn't reality for me. Like, it wasn't light and easy. It was hard and labor laborious. It was like, "Oh, I have to do this." It's like, I don't know if you've ever read like Pilgrim's Progress, but where Christian comes to see the lamb at the top of the hill, he sees the lamb and his burden just like rolls off down the hill. And I was like, I'm still carrying my burden. Like, I can't be like on the right track. Like, there's got to be something something different.

So, I said, God, I want you to show me how to be saved. like you need to figure this out because I'm kind of done with the church because it's not giving me proper answers. I like I need a concrete answer. And I realized, you know, they don't even know themselves concretely. What's salvation? Like what is like how do I get saved? For example, like nope, I don't know. And it's like, okay, like I guess I have to go to the Bible if I want to have an answer on this. So I was like, all right. And what I did was I told God, all right, this is going to be like a chat between you and me, like a text message or like a messaging platform.

And I said, "All right, like a like a child, you say, okay, even the children." So I'm like, "All right, like a child, I'm going to take the Bible seriously. Like I'm literally going to take it seriously. Like I'm gonna believe now that when I open this book that you can actually talk to me through it. Like I don't have to I don't know like go to a Bible study guide with like you know a trifold you know those Bible study guides or like a or a a website or something to figure out what you actually mean like no no I'm going to actually see what do you have to say.

So I started taking his word extremely seriously and like this is a practical application in my life like right now like this text I started expecting real responses like I had expectations. I was like God I'm coming to you. I'm telling you Lord I need this. I'm open your word. What do you have to say to me? of course within bounds. But I was like, I want to know what I need to do to get saved. Please show me from your word the way to salvation. And when I started reading, I found that the Bible makes it clear that Jesus is the way.

I mean we have Acts 4:12 which says nor is there any salvation in any other for there is no name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved other than the name of Jesus of course or John 14 chapter John John John John John John John John John John John John John John 14:6 where Jesus says I am the way the truth and the life. No one comes to the father except through me. I am the way, the truth, and the life. Jesus invites us to come to the father through him. And that was kind of problematic for me cuz I was like, "All right, I'm going to take everything like literally within bounds, of course."

And I was like, "All right, Jesus, I can't walk on you. I can't walk through you. This does not make sense. Like, what do you mean? Like, how do I come to the father like through you? Like, I don't know. I can't physically walk like you're not a pathway, right?" So I was like, "Hm, well Lord, I you say that you save and you invite me to come, but you know, you you don't live on earth. You're not physically here. So So how am I supposed to come to you?" And I still remember when God answered that question.

So I sat in church one Sabbath and I was just I was just done. I was like, "Okay, okay, no." I was like, they were preaching and I was like sitting there screaming inside my head, "Feed me. Feed me. I need I need to know that Jesus listens to me." I I was I was asking God like the classic question, God, do you even exist? Are you even real? Are you listening? Because I need help, but I need it now or I'm leaving. And this wasn't because, oh, I wasn't convinced of the truth. No, the Sabbath and all the state of the dead and all these things, the forms are great and we shouldn't throw them out.

But if the forms aren't filled with fire, people start asking questions. And I asked questions and I said, "Okay, you promised you would lead and guide. You promised you'd be with us wherever. So, I need you to answer." I opened my Bible because I was like, "All right, Lord. time for you to speak. And I flipped through like something in I don't know Mark or something and then I got to Luke got to Luke chapter 2 verse 49 to 50 where it says you know the story Jesus is talking in the temple with the teachers and his parents are looking for him and he says when they find him he tells them why were you searching for me?

didn't you know that I had to be in my father's house? But they did not understand what he was saying to them. And I remember I got furious cuz I was like, "Lord, this is the same exact question like the question they asked Mary asked Jesus like where were you? Like didn't you know? I was so anxious." And Jesus is just like, "Well, didn't you know where I was? Like I was didn't you know that I had to be in the father's house?" I was like, "Lord, this is the exact question I've been asking. Like, where were you?

Didn't you Did you have like no empathy that I've been looking for you like like this?" Like, I've been agonizing. I've been like, "Oh, is God even real?" Like, I've I've been asking these classic questions, and it's like, "All right, where's my answer?" And then it comes around. I flipped to this page, and God's like, "Why were you searching for me? Didn't you know I had to be in the father's house? And I was like, God, what is the father's house? That doesn't make sense. I have the same question and I don't understand either.

And then another verse flashed through my mind and I started crying. Luke 19 46-47 It is written he said to them that my house will be a house of prayer. For me personally this was a huge answer. It might seem a little out there the way I connected these, but to me at that moment, this was exactly what I needed to hear. I was like, "Oh my goodness." Jesus was telling us, you know, he was like, "Okay, you want to know how to come to me? Okay, the father's house. I'm here. And he was like, "All right, location, hours, every day at the temple teaching."

You notice that last part in the slide? Every day he was teaching at the temple. Every day at the temple, the father's house teaching. I was like, "This is fantastic. This is awesome." I was so excited. I was like, "I found Jesus. I know where he is. He's in prayer. Like, I can get to him there." I was like, "Yes, yes." I was like, "Wow, you actually do still answer people practically." Like, what? Cuz I I didn't know that the Bible worked that way. I I I didn't know. I was like, "Okay, whatever."

And just read like another story of Noah's arc or something, you know? I was like, I didn't know the Bible could apply personally to your life and that God could actually speak to you, speak to me using these ancient words, these ancient pages, these well, not ancient in my Bible. I mean, I hope you have a new one, but you know, just this old old stories. I was like, "Wow, God is real." That proved to me God isn't just some sort of story figure. God speaks and when you have a question, he answers.

The truth as it is in the Bible is that if you desire to come to Jesus, You know, I had envy about, you know, all the blind and sick people and all these people back in his day because I was like, well, they could physically come to Jesus. Like, I can't do that. That's not fair. Yeah, you can come to Jesus physically. You just have to close your eyes and start praying. You're there and he's there and you can talk whenever you need to. Please, if you're driving, don't close your eyes while you pray.

So, apparently at some point I had sort of formed the idea in my head that, oh, I need to repent before I can come to Jesus. If you have that misconception, that's not what the Bible teaches. Because if you have to repent before you can come to the house of the father, that that's not what the Bible says. It's like nowhere does the Bible say, "Oh, you must repent before you can come to Jesus through prayer." You can come to Jesus if if you've just committed adultery, if you've just murdered, like you can go and ask for repentance because repentance is a gift.

It's not a let me like try to squeeze it out of myself like Lord, here's a little bit of repentance. No. No. Repentance is a gift and it's not a prerequisite for coming to Jesus. But I want to notice espec especially what the last part of Luke chapter 9 19 46 to 47 says. It says that every day he was teaching at the temple. every day at the temple So I said, "Okay, Lord, I see how it is. You want me to come every day to the temple, the father's house, and you're going to teach me." I was like, "What are you going to teach me exactly?

What are you going to teach me?" And I looked at Matthew 11:1 19 Jesus says, "Take my yoke upon you and learn from me for I am gentle and lowly in heart and you will find rest for your souls." And I was excited. I said, "Hey, that actually sounds really good. Like I need rest for my soul because I'm constantly just fighting temptation. I'm like day in day out like 24/7 like oh it just doesn't stop. I'm exhausted. I'm exhausted by this. This isn't rest. This is hard work. I was like okay if you want me to come every day to your temple that's something I can do.

I can I can come and pray every day. You know that that's something I can do. So I said, "Okay, I'm going to do this and I'm going to do it as long as it takes until I actually receive that rest." Cuz you said, "I will find rest if I learn from you. So, I'm going to keep coming to your classes in the temple and I'm going to keep listening and I'm going to keep praying until I get an answer until I receive the promised rest because you said so. I was like, "Okay, God said clear it is. All right."

And that commitment to start praying every day and to get in touch with God every day, that was actually the real starting point of my journey. Like all the frustration before and all of the all of the fighting and the battles and just just being discontent, that was kind of like the precursor to like the real deal. It was like okay now your spiritual journey is starting because you realize all right there's nothing I can do. I want to read this statement from the desire of ages and it goes like this.

It says, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness." The sense of unworthiness will lead the heart to hunger and thirst for And this desire will not be disappointed. Will not be disappointed. Those who make room in their hearts for Jesus will realize his love. All who long to bear the likeness of the character of God shall be satisfied. The Holy Spirit never leaves unassisted the soul who was looking unto Jesus. He takes of the things of Christ and shows them unto him. If the eye is kept fixed on Christ, the work of the spirit ceases not until the soul is conformed to his image.

I had now learned through experience that God can and does still speak through the word of God. It's as real now as it was back then. It's as fresh and as relevant to us as he spoke to Jeremiah, to Isaiah, to David, to Daniel. This stuff is relevant today and to you. When I started holding God accountable for what he said, he began to fulfill his promises for me personally and I began experimenting with my faith. I would read promises like Isaiah 55:1 where it says, "So shall my word be that goes forth from my mouth.

It shall not return to me void. But it shall accomplish what I please and it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it. God says the words that he speaks will not return to his mouth void. That means the promise will not be left unfulfilled. When I read stuff like that, I'd say to God, "Lord, Lord, you wrote right here in Isaiah 55 verse 11, you said that your words will not return to you empty. You said they would accomplish what you desire." That means that your promises about freedom from sin and your promises about living a holy life, living a godly life have to apply to me.

You said that you're not a liar. So that means that you're able to fulfill these promises in me. do in me according to your promise. My sanctification is now your responsibility. You know that I can't resist temptation. I've tried. It doesn't work. Sometimes it does. But sometimes is not enough for me. Sometimes it's frustrating. You didn't say sometimes you would fulfill your promise. You didn't say sometimes my word shall return to me not void. You said it shall. There's no conditional thing there.

It doesn't say maybe it will or perhaps or well if you're nice enough. It says it will. So Lord, I claim this. Thank you so much. Another thing that I often prayed during this journey was, "God, I need you to show me the way. I want to know you and I want to have a relationship with you, but I have no idea how to practically start one. I have no idea. you'll have to teach me everything from scratch. And I found a response to that prayer in 33 to 14. Now therefore I pray if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your way that I may know you and that I may find grace in your sight.

And he said, "My presence will go with you and I will give you rest." I found that this text was a perfect reflection and a perfect answer to my prayer. God spoke to me personally like he spoke to Moses. God would guide me and he would lead me on my spiritual journey. And best of all, he would give me rest, which was exactly what I needed. how to come to Jesus and that by coming to him and learning from him, I would find rest. But I want to mention that just because I decided to commit to daily prayer.

That did not mean that everything was smooth sailing. Oh no, no, no, no, no. There was no flip switch, there was nothing like that. In fact, when the initial excitement wore off, I was like, "Oh, do I have to do this? I don't want to pray right now. I don't want to." There was no visible change. Like nothing happened. Literally nothing happened. I still kept consistently sinning and I kept consistently falling short and it was really really frustrating and I was like, "Lord, I'm going to give up on you because you're not doing anything."

I was an empty form waiting for fire and fire wasn't coming. So I was like maybe maybe God is broken or something like may maybe maybe I maybe I expected too much. But that's when I found this verse in the Bible. Luke chapter 18 verse1 Then he spoke a parable to them that men always ought to pray and not lose heart. So this parable is actually about the persistent widow and she persisted and she persisted until she got what was just like she got justice. She didn't give up till she got justice. like she didn't.

And you can read the rest of it in Luke chapter 18. But to me and to my frustration, these words of Jesus were extremely encouraging. Extremely encouraging because I was like, "Ah, the days roll by. I pray nothing happens. I'm still the same old same old sinner." And I made a note to myself during that time that I'd like to share with you. I wrote, "I feel like I'm unable to draw close to God." Press on. Press on. Push on. Even if prayers don't seem to help, Jesus said that it is the thing that will let you find him.

He also said that we should always pray and not give up. He wouldn't have said that to us if prayer didn't sometimes make us want to give up. So, push past these feelings and don't give up praying. That's what I wrote. Because, you know, daily prayer, it's not an easy thing. Why is it not an easy thing? because it's dangerous for the devil. The devil does not want you to contact his worst enemy. That is absolutely not what he wants you to do. He's like everything else but not this. It was a struggle for me.

Sometimes I would come to God as late as 3 p.m. 3 p.m. in the afternoon. I'd come in dirty and sweaty from gardening. I was like, "I feel bad. I haven't prayed yet. I told God I would, but like and then I would pray." And sometimes I would get up at 5:30 a.m. in the morning because I was like, "Ah, I just need to I will spend time with God now." I felt like a saint. And the length of my prayers, they were not consistent either. They ranged between 90 seconds and two hours. Prayer is not easy, my friends.

Prayer takes commitment. Do you want to know God or do you not? You know these really short prayers, like 90 second prayers, it's a minute and a half. I often felt really horrible about it. But even sometimes about my two-hour prayers, I'd be like, "This wasn't a good wasn't a good prayer." Had quality. Bad quality. Don't lie. We've all thought about we've all said that and thought about that about our prayers. It was just like a bad quality. But I did never give up praying. I was like, I'm going to keep going.

The content of my prayers was also wildly different from day to day. Sometimes I would pray and it would just be like a volcano. Like I'd be angry and I'm like, "Lord, I'm desperate. I need help. Like you're not answering." Ah. Other times it seemed my like my prayer was worse than flat soda. Worse than flat warm soda. And it hardly reached the attic. Like it got stuck on my curtain or A couple of times I came into my room with the intention of praying. You know, I'm going to pray. And I sat down on my floor and I said, "Dear Jesus," and I just started sobbing.

I was like, "Uh, crying." I was like, "Prayer is hard." But, you know, Jesus didn't say that you have to talk when you come to him. He just said, "Okay, you can sit. You can sit in my presence. You can just sit here and cry. That's okay. I'm listening. Because you know friends, he doesn't just hear your words. He hears the heart speaking. He can read those tears. God can read tears. God can read silence. God can read your heart. Even if you have absolutely nothing to say and you're just sitting there like, "Lord, what on earth?"

or Lord, I don't even know. But you know, more often than not, and I really don't like to admit this, but this is what happened. A lot of times I like most times I would just sit there and for my bed, I'd be crouched down and be like, uh, and I'd be like, I do not want to pray and I do not want to read the Bible. I don't want to do anything. I want to go and have fun. Like, I I don't want to have anything to do with religion right now. Like, nothing. Like, I want to leave. And I'd be really real with God.

I'd say, "All right, Lord. I have absolutely no desire whatsoever to pray or to read or I like I just want to leave. Like I want to leave. I want to go and move on with my day and not waste this time. Like pardon me, Lord, but like I really don't want to waste the time." And but you know, I'm here because you said well because I said that I want to come to you every single day and I'm not going to give up until I receive that rest because I still need that rest. And even though my heart doesn't feel anything, I am willing to be made willing to want to spend time with you.

like I'm not willing, but I'm willing to be made willing to spend time in your presence. So, do something about it. Very rarely, I walked out of my room and felt that I had a decent prayer. But I did not give up. I pushed through what often felt like spiritual fog. About a month of persistence, I slowly noticed a difference in me. And out of all things, my music taste changed. Out of all things, it would have never even crossed my mind. But I went from listening to pop music to absolutely loving old-fashioned hymns.

Old-fashioned hymns. I'm 15. But that didn't happen. I didn't like oldfashioned hymns now because, oh, the music rhythm is good or the lyrics are fire. No, no. This was because I had deep feelings towards God that I didn't have like the words sometimes to express. And the text of these hymns, they were they would be like a I put my heart on the copy machine and out came these lyrics or not these lyrics, this text. And I was like, wow, I can relate to this. Like, this is powerful stuff. Like, there's actually something in here.

Some of my favorite hymns to this day are still Nearer My God, to thee. Nearer, still nearer, I must tell Jesus. And whiter than snow. You know, God's priorities for us are different from what we may expect they are. Other people may start noticing changes elsewhere in their lives, but for me, music was where I sensed God working first. Also during this process of daily prayer and not giving up until I received till I received that rest God promised, I started confessing sins to people that I had offended or that I had hurt or that I had done wrong to.

And don't be fooled, that was not easy. It was not easy. It was humbling. It was very humbling. much more humbling than I anything I have done in my life before or than much I've done in my life. But again, I'd said Jesus, okay, I don't want my iniquities to separate me from you. And there's a promise that I would like to claim. It says, I don't have this on the screen, but you can probably Google it. And it says, I have swept away your offenses like a cloud and your sins like the morning mist. Return to me for I have redeemed you.

And I was like, Lord, I really want to claim that promise. Like I do. So I was like, okay, I'm going confess. And then I wanted to understand surrender. I wanted to understand what is surrender and how do I do that? Because surrender has always been a very very abstract topic for me. It's surrender. It's the same as give your heart to Jesus. Like wonderful. I can't just tear out my heart and throw it into the sky of God. Not how this works. So what does this mean practically? It sounds very nice.

Surrender. Give your heart to Jesus. But like when it comes down to like eternal life and eternal death, how do we surrender? Like does anybody really know? And I've heard a lot of advice on surrender on on how to surrender. But the answer again, I was like, I need to find this answer in the Bible because this is where I want God to, you know, this is where God speaks and he's spoke to me before. So I don't think expecting an answer for him on how to surrender would be too much. So I was like, okay, okay, let me find the answer to surrender in the Bible.

And it came with such a clarity that I have never heard it explained before. One evening I was praying and reading the Bible. Well, specifically I was reading in the Gospel of Luke because I really like Luke, right? Like Luke, ever since that experience with the father's house and his answer, I was like, Luke, this is my this is my favorite Bible book. And it's the scene of Christ's last moments, you know, where he speaks his last words. Luke 23 46. Verse 46. And when Jesus had cried out with a loud voice, he saidf, "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit," "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit."

And having said this, he breathed to the last. And the thought hit me. The moment Jesus committed his spirit into the hands of the father, he died. There was no struggle. There was no heavy labor. He just he just died just like that. He breathed his last and was gone. His spirit didn't linger around or go to heaven or haunt him or something like that. No, the whole of Jesus, his body, it was dead. Like his spirit had been taken from him. With a snap of a finger, he was dead. God had listened to the plea of his son and taken his spirit from him so that he might die.

I understood the significance and maybe you do too, but let me try to explain it anyways. You can't say I am going to die now and then just drop dead. That's not how it works. The words alone won't kill you. The words have no power in them to do that. In the same way, in the same way, Jesus's words alone didn't make him die. His words didn't make him die. The father answered his prayer and that's when Jesus died. When the father performed his action of answering the prayer of Jesus, of answering the words of Jesus, Same with us.

I realized that there is nothing that I can do or that I need to do to It's not about perfect words. It's about the request. Once I ask Jesus to take self, he takes self from me and he kills it. That's it. It's It's just gone. When you surrender, the words of the Apostle Paul become true. Galatians 20 Galatians 2 chapter Galatians chapter 2 verse 20 says, "I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh or in the body, I live by faith in the son of God who loved me and gave himself for me.

I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but it is Jesus living in me. And as I realized that, the cross became the most beautiful thing in the entire Bible, the most beautiful thing in the entire world. the last lesson on the cross as he was achieving salvation for us. His last lesson was on how to accept that salvation. He built a bullwark of temptation against temptation around me. Somehow I had intuitively known that a defense wall must be possible because I had always tried to build one for myself.

I was like, "Okay, let me put a stone here and a piece there and like build it up and mortar and brick and, you know, just like with discipline or with with um oh, I'm going to quote this Bible verse before I s you know, when I was five years old and before I did some mischief, I would always quote a Bible verse to myself. I would say, "Be sure that your sin shall find you out." And then I would do it anyway. I was like, "No, quoting Bible verses doesn't work." No, no, no. This this this doesn't work.

Be sure that your sin shall find you out and then do it anyways. Like that that's just that's hypocritical. Like that that I don't I don't no this is not my style. Like I can't just No. Uh-uh. And I had tried to build a defense wall against myself using techniques like that like oh let's sing something. If you feel temptation coming sing something. Well, friends, the problem is when you sense temptation coming or when temptation is already there, you are in no mood to sing. You're like, "Oh, I like this."

You're like, "No, I don't want to sing." It It doesn't work like that. Like, this is not reality. It sounds very nice and maybe it works for some people, but it didn't work for me and I don't think it works for every one of you. It's just frustrating. So, I was like, "Ah, my wall had holes." Sometimes it would work, but sometimes it wouldn't. And I would be like, "Oh, there's an enemy pouring in." And temptation would overwhelm me. And it would be like, "No, no, my wall isn't ready. My my wall isn't sturdy."

But when I realized that self is the problem and Jesus will take self free of charge without me having to do anything except ask. I was like, "Wow, wow." I was blown away. I was like, "This eliminates the problem." If self is gone, self is the thing that wanted to do these temptations all that wanted to act on these temptations all the time. And if it's just gone, well, Because now the spirit of Christ lives in you and you follow the desires of the So when I looked at Jesus on that cross and I realized, wow, your last lesson for me, your last lesson for me was how to accept the salvation that you were achieving as you died there.

For me? For me. You were like, I really want you to understand. I really want you to understand this. So the last thing I say is a lesson on how to accept this. It's like God did that for me. I began to love him immensely. I was like, oh my goodness, you did that for me? Joy poured into my heart as I realized I was in deep awe of Jesus because he didn't have to do that. I was deeply fascinated by that moment. Deeply fascinated. I felt that I could never never never never ever pay back all that love he poured into me.

Even if I served him for the rest of this life and the rest of eternity, I could never ever pay back a single bit what he did. I was like, "This is too big and too wide and too deep for me to even fully comprehend. Remember how I told you that I tried to build up a wall against temptation and I got frustrated with it? When I understood how to come to Jesus and continually pray, pray every day, a little wall started to surround me. Not a visible one. No, no. A spiritual one. I had not built that wall.

It was perfect. It had no holes. It had no gaps. Through prayer, I had apparently contacted the master builder and asked him to come and fix the situation. He did. He showed up and he built what I never could have. I never could have built that. Even by a whole lifetime of building and even if I had worldclass discipline and foolproof strategies, I could have never made that wall as solid as he did. Never. It was impossible. He did and built what I never could have. And the best part was that I had no more wall building to do in my own strength.

My fight was for the continual presence of God in my life daily. He Jesus did everything else for me. The entirety the entirety of salvation hung on his shoulders alone. And temptation lost all of its allure. My desires, they shifted by 180 degrees. I hated what I once loved and I loved what I once hated. And to try and explain what the Holy Spirit did inside my heart, I'm going to use the analogy of a parapet. Have you ever used that word before? Or have you ever heard that parapet part of its definition means low protective wall or bullwark fortress and the likes of that.

And for me it was like Jesus had raised up a low parapet around my heart all around me and circling. The job of the parapet was to alert me when temptation come. Okay came. If any of you guys have iPhones or eye devices, you know that little white box that appears and you can push confirm or whatever else. Okay. And that's kind of what the parapit It was like, "Okay, it gave me like an extra moment, like a moment of like, all right, let me think about this. Do I actually want this or no?" And that was fair.

Like, that was actually fair. Remember how I told you guys that before? It was just like, "Oh, I'd slip into temptation without even thinking about it. Just like a water slide covered in soap, like zoom, gone." No, this was I had a moment to think about it. I was like, "Do I want this or not?" It was a moment of thought before I made my choice. It was as if the temptation had to stand outside a door and wait for me to make a decision. And I could look through the peepphole and see, oh, who is it?

No, I don't want to let them in. I don't want to let them in. Let me give you an example. before the parapet when one of my siblings would annoy me. I have two and I love them you guys. But you know they they do annoy me sometimes. They would and they still do. But when they did I would snap at them like without even thinking. But with the my sibling annoyed me. The temptation to snap at them would present itself. But I was able to make a rational choice about whether I wanted to or not. Instead of blindly giving in, instead of blindly sliding into temptation, sliding into sin, I was free to choose.

it wasn't the parapet alone that shielded me from temptation. It would have been somewhat useless if my desires and attitude towards sin hadn't changed. The new heart that Jesus had given me, complete with new desires When temptation came along, it was like I was disgusted by it. It's like I'd look through the people like, "Oh, no, by no means. Nuh-uh. Go away." Like, "Jesus, there's someone at the door." Like, I no, not cool. Sin was extremely disgusting. Extremely disgusting. I was like, "Oh, no.

How horrible. How evil. How wicked. But like I've already stated, the parapet did not stop me from sinning. Like I said, I was free to choose. And I had a new desire that was like, "No, I definitely don't want to choose that. No, my goodness." But I was free to choose. If I wanted to, I could still give in to temptation. And unfortunately, I still did sometimes. But when I sinned, it was like I was stepping over the wall and I'd lose my peace and I'd lose the comfort I had of knowing that God was around me.

My connection with God seemed like interrupted like like you know when you call somebody and there's like static on the line and it's like it's like oh there's something there. What's wrong? That's what it felt like. I'd regret my choice almost instantly and I'd repent. I'd be like, "Jesus, I didn't want to do that. Would you please forgive me? I'm sorry. I didn't want this to separate you from me." And he'd forgive me. And grace was granted immediately. Instantly, when I knew I was forgiven, I had peace again.

And I felt so thankful for my advocate, Jesus. I was so thankful. I was like, "You don't leave me when I sin. You're just waiting for me to Okay, when is she coming? I want to forgive her." It was just like the words of the Apostle John in 1 John 2:1. My little children, these things I write to you so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. And here's another quote from Ellen White that I think beautifully reflects the experience of sinning with a changed heart in the parapet.

We shall often have to bow down and weep at the feet of Jesus because of our shortcomings and mistakes. But we are not to be discouraged. Even if we are overcome by the enemy, we are not cast off, not forsaken and rejected of God. No, Christ is at the right hand of God. Who also maketh intercession for us, said the beloved John, these things I write unto you, that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the And do not forget the words of Christ. The Father himself loveth you.

John 6:27. He desires to restore you to himself, to see his own purity and holiness reflected in you. And if you will but yield yourself to him, he that hath begun a good work in you will carry forward will carry it forward to the day of Jesus Christ. Pray more fervently, believe more fully. As we come to distrust our own power, let us trust the power of our redeemer. And we shall praise him who is the health of our countenance. The difference before my experience with Christ and the Holy Spirit was that it now took effort to sin.

It took effort to sin. Whatever had taken an effort to do with a good attitude, you know, be nice to my siblings, help my parents, do schoolwork, do the dishwasher, I could do it with a truly happy heart. A truly happy heart. and everything that had taken almost no effort to do without the change desired. Things like wasting time or becoming impatient or being grumpy. These things all seem foreign to me. This is exactly what the Apostle Paul is referring to when he writes in Hebrews 10:1 16. This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds, I will write them.

With the new heart, I was able to have a consistent atmosphere filled with peace, and I knew that the presence of God was with me. That's why I was able to do everything as unto the Lord. Like it says in Colossians 3 23. And whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not to Every morning I'd ask Jesus to send me the Holy Spirit again. And he would. During that experience, I understood Jesus so much better. He had to come to earth and he experienced the same thing. He was bombarded with temptations without breaks.

Without breaks. At least for me, they didn't come up like all the time, but they came like boom boom. Another temptation. another temptation. I was like, where are they coming from? There's like so many and all the time. Like, oh my goodness. Of course, the devil sends these. And it and it made me realize there actually is a war going on. Like, the devil's trying to tear down this wall. There's a war. There is a war going on around us. Jesus didn't give in once, not a single time. He could have.

He had the option to. This mission on Earth was risky business. This wasn't of course I'll do it and of course it will work. This was a I'll do it if it doesn't work But he did it. He did it for us. And Jesus is our example. As our example, we can do it too. We will be enabled to do it by his spirit. We cannot do this of ourselves. With man, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible through him who believes. And I want to strongly emphasize at this point when I was surrounded by the parapit, I was by no means by no means perfect.

Neither was I unable to commit sin like I just shared. I absolutely do not claim to not have sinned when I have that. I absolutely claim to have sinned. Yes, I did sin, unfortunately. And it nearly tore my heart out when I interrupted my connection with God. But he forgave me. What kept me from sinning at all was the grace of God alone. He truly fulfilled his promises in me. And by now you may be wondering, is this holy experience? Is this even like biblical? like this sounds like and I was wondering myself as I as I was experiencing this and trying to identify what was going on and here's what I found this idea of a parapet a wall a bullwark rampart fortification whatever you want to call it this idea this is a theme that we often find repeated and enlarged upon in scripture it's emphasized a lot for example Isaiah chapter 26 verses 1-3.

We have a strong city and God will appoint salvation for walls and bullwarks. You will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you. During this experience, I was constantly thinking of Jesus. Like I was so happy thinking about him. like he just filled my heart with joy. I was like, "This is my redeemer. He saved me. I only wanted to do what God wanted me to do because I was like, I just want to make you happy. And I know I can never pay it back, but I just want to I want to do something."

And instead of doing something to be saved, it was doing something to show my love. Instead of doing something to be saved, it was doing something to show that I loved him. Something, just a little thing. Here's a quote from Steps to Christ, page 58, that accurately reflects my feelings toward Jesus. It says, "Who has the heart with whom are our thoughts? Of whom do we love to converse to talk about? Who has our warmest affections and our best energies?" If we are Christs, our thoughts are with him and our sweetest thoughts are of him.

All we have and are is consecrated to him. We long to bear his image, breathe his spirit, do his will, and please him in all things. This is exactly what it was like for me. But let's move on to the next scripture verse. Psalm 91 verse 1:2. He who dwells in the secret place of the most high shall abide under the shadow of the almighty. I will say of the Lord, he is my refuge and my fortress, my God. In him will I trust. He is my refuge and my fortress, In him I will trust. And I was indeed able to say this, he is my refuge and my fortress.

Because I understood that without Christ, I had nothing to bring. There was nothing I could put on the table. I couldn't recommend myself to God because I was a sinner. My wall was broken and it was in disrepair and it was frustrating. But built this wall around me. And suddenly God didn't see my broken down wall. He saw the wall Christ built. And that was enough. That was enough. I want to read another quote quotation from steps to Christ. This time from page 69. It says, "Many have an idea that they must do some part just like one little part of the work alone.

They have trusted in Christ for the forgiveness of sin, but now they seek by their own efforts to live right. But every such effort must fail. Jesus says without me he can do nothing. Our growth and grace, our joy, our usefulness all depend upon our union with Christ. It is by communion with him daily, hourly, by abiding in him that we are to grow in grace. He is not only the author but the finisher of our faith. It is Christ first and last and always. He is to be with us not only at the beginning and at the end of our course but at every step of the way.

David says, "I have set the Lord always before me because he is at my right hand. I shall not be moved." Temptation didn't have the power to move me, but I had the power to let it choose to move me. I had the power to choose if I would be moved by it, but it didn't have the power to move me. And why? Because self, when self had the power to choose, self would always choose temptation. Because selfishness is sin. And sin begets sin. Beget sin begets sin. And sin separates you from the only power that can help you overcome that can that can resist that for you.

Also Psalm 62 verse 6 resonated with me. It says he only he only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. Again, here we see the pattern repeated. We shall not be moved if he only is our rock and our salvation. you know, in Friday Night Lights, which we have every Friday night at 8:00 PM Eastern Standard Time. I just want to make a little bit of like a an ad here for Friday Night Lights. Awesome. Teenagers, if you're listening, please stop by. Amazing. And Miss Jerry, we started studying Psalm 23.

And we started with the first verse and we got not even past the first two words. The Lord, you know, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not work. We we we started with the Lord. We did not move past for like an whole hour and a half. I feel the same way about Psalm 26:6. Uh Psalm 62:6, pardon. He only. He only. I could just go on and on about he only. It's not he only and a little bit of us in the background in his back pocket. No, no, no. It's he only. Not well half him and half me. No. He Not some of his effort and some of my effort and maybe a little bit of my dogs.

No, he only is my rock. and my salvation. As I already mentioned, sin became more disgusting to me. Did not move me anymore. And I wanted to have nothing to do with sin. I was like, "No, this is bad. This is exactly what put my savior on the cross. I don't want this." here in one of my favorite books um thoughts from the mount of blessing page um 118 paragraph 3 we can read about the experience that I had the only safeguard against evil I just love how she says the only safeguard here because we think well sometimes we can build a little bit of a safeguard up ourselves it's like okay well maybe if I quote scripture if I quote the right verse or if I sing the right song Maybe I can like No, she's like the only safeguard against evil.

The only safeguard against evil is the indwelling of Christ in the heart through faith in his righteousness. It is because selfishness exists in our hearts that temptation has power over hearts. That temptation has power over But when we behold the great love of God, selfishness appears to us in its hideous and repulsive character. And we desire to have it expelled from the soul, cast out, thrown out, spring cleaning. As the Holy Spirit glorifies Christ, our hearts are softened and subdued. The temptation loses its power and the grace of Christ transforms the character.

None of what I described that took place in my life was my own dealing. None of it. None of it was my own. I know that it was the Holy Spirit working in me. I know that it was by the grace of Christ alone. I know that it was because of his sacrifice, because of what he did, because of his grace and his mercy. That's why this happened. This was not this had nothing to do with me. This was all Jesus. This was all Jesus. He changed my desires and my feelings about sin. And you know in Galatians we're given the promise about the Holy Spirit.

You know that by the help of the spirit we will no desire we will no longer desire the fleshly things the things that our old self wanted and desired. It says in Galatians 5:16, "I say then, walk in the spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh if you walk in the spirit." This parapet around my heart that Christ and his love built for me was supernatural. There was nothing human about it. Because with man, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible.

And God is just as powerful now and today and tomorrow as he was 1,000 years ago, 2,000 years ago, 5,000 years ago. But I want to mention one thing, something that really surprised me about this parapet that Christ built. Jesus did not throw out the old stones I had laid. He didn't throw them out. That surprised Every stone I had set, every carnal effort I had put into being a good Christian was valuable. It was truly valuable because everything I had avoided and everything that I had just done out of my own power to be right, to live right, anything I had built up, anything that I had pounded down, every good habit I had adopted, every doctrine I had kept, this all was a blessing.

Every single thing was a blessing. And I remember regretting that I didn't do more because now I had to h let Jesus build the foundation for that up in me. And it was just easier to have the old forms because now the forms, they were filled with fire and they were extremely useful to Jesus. I want to remind you of the phone analogy again. Just because the phone isn't turned on and nobody can reach you doesn't mean that you throw it in the garbage. You know, you'd be quite insane if you did that.

You'd be out of your mind because why? You just have to turn the phone on. That's exactly what it's like with the fire with with the forms, pardon. Just because the forms have no fire doesn't mean we should toss them out the window. By no means. We ought to keep those and build on them until we receive that fire from on high because we will be blessed. let's ask Christ to connect our forms with the fire. Then they can become useful tools for him and his glory. the parapet and the new heart aren't permanent.

This is not a once-s saved always saved situation. This is a by daily prayer by hourly prayer by continuation in prayer by remaining connected to God. This is how this is maintained. You can buy a car and you can have a brand new car, but if you never get the oil change, if you never do anything anything to do to fix it, to maintain it, well, eventually it's going to break and you're just going to have a a useless piece of metal sitting in your garage. If you don't maintain your connection with Christ, the parapet and the new desires will fade and self will return.

I let my focus drift back to my own works and the parapit faded away. I am praying and retracing my steps. retracing the steps that I just shared with you all. Daily prayer, letting Christ teach me in his school. But I know that the power that that he exercised then is still available to me and to you. It's still available and hope is not lost. what's the solution to our spiritual desolation? If we want to see change in our spiritual condition, we need to learn to rely 100% no 1,000% on Jesus. We must focus on Jesus.

Jesus alone. We need to pray to God first individually and then together for grace to shift our focus from our forms to our creator who can fill this with I want to quickly pivot to the story of Barnameus. And I don't have the text reference for it, but you all know how Bardeameus yelled out to Jesus. He sat on the road. He was blind. Blind Barameus. And when Jesus came by and he realized what was happening, he was like, "Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. have mercy on me. Everyone's like, "Hush hush, you're too loud."

Like, goodness gracious. Like, he's not gonna pay attention to you anyway. He's just like, he's like, he cried all the louder. The Bible says, "Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Have mercy on me." Who else in the Bible cried out to God, "Have mercy on me." It's in Luke 18 verse three. And the tax collector standing a far off would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven. But he beat his breast saying, "God, be merciful to me a sinner. Be merciful to me a sinner." It all comes back to Leodysia.

It all comes back to us again. We must understand our blindness just like Bardameus understood it. He didn't sit there and was like, I can see the trees. When he really couldn't. He was like, I know I'm blind and I know I need help and there's someone passing by who I know can help. I'm not going to stop asking. I'm not going to stop crying out until he answers me. Even if circumstances, even if everybody around me tells me it's useless, he'll never listen. I won't stop. I won't stop. When we realize our spiritual blindness, selfishness, and sinfulness, Jesus can work with us.

the good things he wants to do in us. He can finally work in us to will and to do the good things according to his pleasure. Let's look at Philippians chapter 2:13 on the screen. For it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. What does it say? It doesn't say, "Oh, well, maybe it's God and maybe it's me or we really don't know who it is." It says, "No, for it is God." Very simple. God works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. So, let me tell you something.

If it is actually God who works both to will and to do. Well, the doing is one part that's like that's its own thing. But the willing, if you're like, well, I kind of know that I'm spiritually poor and that I'm kind of know I have a little bit of a hunch and like I've been told a lot, but I don't really like feel it. Like not really. Don't feel like this message isn't for you because God will will in you. God is going to will in you to want to do the good things. God doesn't give up on you just because you don't feel like it or just because you you don't have that urgency.

In fact, that's why he sent the letter to Loudest Yak. He's like, "Guys, hey, you know, there's a problem. I'm going to make you aware of our spiritual poverty. To help us realize that our works are worthless when not connected to his power. To help us realize and understand how we can connect to his power. Back to the story about Armmesus. He didn't first ask for deliverance from his inability. Then when he stood in front of Jesus and he was there with Jesus an arms length away probably and Jesus asked him what do you want me to do for you Bararddmus?

He was like Lord I want to see. I want to see Lord I can't see Lord I realize it and I can't do anything about it. There's nothing I can do. I've tried. I've used herbs. I've gone to the doctor. I've tried. I can't do anything about it. Will you please heal me? And Jesus said, "Your faith has healed you. Go. Your faith has healed you." I always looked at that story. I was like, "What? Your faith has healed you." What did What did Barnameus do? He faith. He just kept yelling. That's all he did. And I realized, wow, when we just keep praying without giving up, without giving up on God, without stopping until we get his presence, until we get the rest he promised, he calls that faith.

Jesus calls faith. Are you crying out for Jesus's mercy today? Don't get discouraged, though. The devil is going to try to keep you from calling out to Jesus because, like I said, it's dangerous for him. He definitely does not want you to get in touch with Jesus because getting in touch with Jesus means that you're getting out of touch with him and his temptations will lose power. It's not a well they might or well if you know maybe not for me. No, it's they will they will lose tempt they will lose power over you.

And he's like no this is not what we want. I experienced a lot of doubts and was fighting a lot of lies in my head about oh you can't come to Jesus because of this and you can't pray because of that and so and so. And I just want to like like tell you like a couple of these lies because I feel like it's really helpful to know that someone else has gone through this and that someone and that there are like answers to this and how to not give up. And here's number one the number one of the devil's lies that he will tell you.

He'll say you are too sinful to come to God. Friends, this is absolutely not true. He'll be like, "Well, God won't accept you because," and he'll quote the Bible. He'll say Isaiah 52:2, "Your iniquities have separated you from your God and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he will not hear." Guys, this is true. But it also says that whoever confesses their sins to him, he is faithful and just to forgive them. Don't be fooled. The devil can and still does quote the Bible for his purposes just like he did in the desert with Jesus.

He quote he quote the Bible. The devil can quote the Bible. He knows how to get to you. But Jesus quote quote quoted the Bible back. The devil is good at that. He's in the business of misrepresenting the creator. But praise the Lord that we like Jesus have proof of God's love that say no I will forgive you. Here Isaiah 44 verse 22 says I have blotted out like a thick cloud your transgressions and like a cloud your sins. Return to me for I have redeemed you. In John 6:37, "All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me, I will by no means cast out."

By no means. 1 Timothy 1:15. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. Romans 5'8, but God demonstrates his own love towards us that in while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. While we were still sinners, see that lie you loses his capability. Right there it says while we were still sinners, Christ came into our presence. So why couldn't we come into Christ's presence while we are still sinners? Lie number two, you can't go to God right now cuz you just sin and it's still fresh.

I mean, that is just ridiculous. But I still fall for it. I still fall for like oh lord. I can't really come like I have to do a little bit of good to balance it out. That is absolutely ridiculous. This one is actually like two lies in one because number one he says you're too sinful to come to Jesus and number two he gets you to focus on your works. You're too sinful to come to Jesus and he gets you to focus on your works. But I want to ask you to think back to the thief on the cross. Did he have any time to do good works before Jesus said, "I'll be with you and you'll be with me in paradise."

No, he had no time to do good works. He died. He died. He had no chance to do good works. Here's a quote that I found helpful. It's from Ministry of Healing. Many who have been overcome by temptation are humiliated by their failures and they feel that it is in vain for them to approach unto God. But this thought is of the enemy's suggestion. When they have sinned and feel that they cannot pray, tell them that it is then the time to pray. Ashamed they may be and deeply humbled. But as they confess their sins, he who is faithful and just will forgive their sins and cleanse them from all unrighteousness.

Line number three. This one was also somewhat difficult for me especially in the beginning because I would keep getting distracted. You keep getting distracted or thinking sinful thoughts while praying. God can't listen to prayers like that. That is not true. Here's a a quote from the book Prayer and it says, "We are not to be so overwhelmed with the thought of our sins and errors that we shall cease to prayer." Pray. Some realize their great wickedness, their great weakness and sin and become discouraged.

Satan casts his dark shadow between them and the Lord Jesus, their atoning sacrifice. They say it is useless for me to pray. My prayers are so mingled with evil thoughts that the Lord will not hear them. These suggestions are from Satan. In his humanity, Christ met and resisted this temptation, and he knows how to sucker those who are thus being tempted. In our behalf, he offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears. Also, I would fall asleep during prayer a lot. Oh, it would happen a lot a lot.

And I felt horrible about it because I was like, "Oh, um, you know, I shouldn't be doing this. It's not it's not what I want. I really want to spend time with God and I don't want to spend time sleeping. Like, I just want to spend time with God." But you know what? I realized that if I were a parent and my child were wanting to spend time with me and they fell asleep, I would not get mad at them. I would absolutely not get mad at them. And that understanding helped me in the beginning. And it soon I didn't, you know, I didn't fall asleep very much during prayer anymore because it just became so important to me.

But no matter what kinds of lies the devil will tell you to try to keep you from God, don't believe him. Believe God. Remember that Jesus is waiting for you with open arms to welcome you home into the kingdom of heaven. Don't give up hope even when everything seems hopeless around you. So at last family, brothers and sisters, I want to make an appeal to you based on the promises of God and my personal experience. I can testify that there is a higher dimension to our faith than we may have previously known.

There is an experience with God available to us today. Today, an experience with God that will transform us. and by the power of the Holy Spirit, transform us into his likeness and remove the bondage of sin and temptation over us. The time is here. God is waiting for us to take hold of his promises in prayer, to search the scriptures for more light, and to not let go until we get an answer from heaven. Don't let go until you get an answer from heaven. Let us wrestle in prayer like Jacob, not giving up until he blesses us.

Tell God, let us tell God that we will not relent. We will not relent until he gives us the rest he promised in his word. We will not relent until we receive the fire promised from on high. Until we receive the parapet. It's available to all those who persist. Let's keep coming back into his presence through earnest heartfelt prayer. Let's stay there. Let us believe with all our heart and not stop coming back until we get an answer. We will see Jesus come in the clouds of heaven. Do you believe that Christ has sent us this letter of correction?

Because the time is short and he's already at the door. He's already knocking. He's not coming out from the car walking up the side. No, he's already at the door. He's ringing the doorbell. He's knocking. He's here. We will see Christ return in the clouds. Will your form be empty or will it be on fire? Will you ask God to give you the parapet of his presence or will you deny the power and sink back into the fireless forms? The choice is ours and the choice is yours. I pray that this message and this appeal will reach hearts that have never been touched by your mercy before.

will plant a seed that will grow and grow until we receive the rest you've promised. Lord, give us grace. Give us grace to keep seeking you out, to keep crying out like Barardeameus, Lord, have mercy on me, a sinner. Lord, we ask for the persistence. We ask for the commitment and we ask for the fire. Fill our temple with the spirit. Fill our forms with the fire. God, we believe that you're coming soon and we believe we believe in your power to transform You said, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil."

And Lord, we believe that you can deliver us from evil. We pray in your name right now and in your power that you will give us this experience that you will give us a living faith that we can live our religion and that the fire can spill out and spill over and create a wildfire that will rage throughout the whole earth. Because then we know then the end will come and we will see you and we will get to go home. Jesus build up the parapet around us. Take self and kill it. We ask all these things in the powerful and lovely name of Jesus.

Amen. I'm inviting you now to Afterglow where I will see you in just a minute and I'm looking forward to see you there. And now as we listen to one of my favorite songs, I must tell Jesus, I want you to think about this. Will you ask God to give you the parapet of his presence? Or are you going to deny the power and sink back into fireless forms? such all of my trials thee. Peace burdens alone. kindly will help He ever loves he'll never leave me nor forsake me. He's right there by my side. >> You're never alone.

You're never alone. My every need he supplies. My father cares. That's why I alone. I don't have to worry. I don't have to worry. If you have some problems in your life that you can't solve, just remember the one who knows all. And he's right there when you call. When you come, I'm still these birdens alone. cares for his own. He'll never leave or forsake you. He's right there by your side. My every need he supplies. My father cares. That's why. >> You don't have to worry. No. >> Your burdens you won't bear alone.

Your burdens you won't bear alone. >> Even in your darkest night. >> Even in your darkest night, >> he's trying to be a guiding light. Ooh. You don't have to worry. No. Your burdens you won't bear alone. Your burdens you won't bear alone. Even in your darkest night. Even in your darkest night. >> Sure to be a light. Ooh. >> Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God.

It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Heat. Heat.