Happy Sabbath everyone. Uh it is good to be here with you today. Um I am uh thankful for the invitation pastor and um I am looking forward to being fed the word of God today because we're all going to eat. Amen. Yeah. So, um I uh you know technology is is something else because as you all know I now have an online church and uh what I did uh this past uh Thursday was I pre-recorded my message. And so I I'm I'm speaking live at my church and they probably will not know that I was not live until afterward.

Um and I was trying to think what should I speak, you know, what message should I do here? I was like I'm not going to do what I what I because you know I want to do something different. But then as I just uh as I thought about it more and more, um I'm going to be preaching now what I'm actually preaching now. So y'all caught that. I'm going to be sharing the same message. Um and and as I looked at your theme, which is flourish, uh what is it? Uh faith to fruit, right? flourish faith to fruit. I thought to myself, "Wow, Lord, you you really orchestrated this."

God. So, um, today I'm going to talk to you about the seal. The spirit. Come on now. And the time of the end. The seal, the spirit, and the time of the end. So, let us pray. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for your amazing grace. Lord, I ask that you would please speak through me now and bless your people, Lord, as we study, as we open the word of God together. May our hearts be filled. May our minds be rejuvenated and may we walk away with a better understanding of what it is you desire of us.

In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So in Daniel 12 and verse 1, the Bible says, "And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince, which standeth for the children of thy people. And there shall be a time of trouble such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. And at that time thy people shall be delivered, everyone that shall be found written in the book." How many of you want to be found written in the book? Amen. And we are told that a time of trouble is coming. Uh and that time of trouble is is really describing how God's people will be attacked at the end of time.

But we don't need to fear because in Revelation 7:1, the Bible says, "And after these things, I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. And I saw another angel ascending from the east having the seal of the living God. And he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, saying, "Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads."

How many of you want to be sealed with that seal? It is that seal that will protect the people of God from the attacks of the enemy particularly at the end of time. And so the question we have today is what is the seal? What is the seal? Now I don't know if any of you may be familiar with a little controversy that is brewing as to what the seal actually is because we have typically held that the seal is what? The Sabbath. But but some are saying, "No, no, no. The seal isn't actually the Sabbath.

The seal is the Holy Spirit." And so the question is, which one is it? Which one is it? According to Ezekiel 20:12, the Bible says, "Moreover also, I gave them my Sabbaths to be a sign or a seal between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord that sanctify them." So according to Ezekiel 20:12, the sign of God is what? The Sabbath. However, there is also Ephesians 4:30, which says, "And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed unto the day of redemption." According to Ephesians 4:30, it would seem that the seal or even the sealer is the Holy Spirit himself.

Now why is this significant? Because if the seal is the Holy Spirit, if the sealer is the Holy Spirit, then what he is sealing us with is his character. And what is his character? It is the fruit of the spirit. The fruit of the spirit. So, could it be possible then that what the enemy will be testing at the end of time is your love, your joy, your peace, your longsuffering, your gentleness, your goodness, your faith, your meekness, your temperance. Could it be that the devil might be saying to God, "Remove the hedge and allow me to test your people how much they love one another.

Come on now. How much joy they have? how much peace they have. Could it be possible that the devil is saying, "I bet you that their joy is only surface. I bet you that their love is only service. I bet you if I can get a group of people to attack them that they will lose their peace, that they will lose their patience." Are y'all following what I'm saying? And so the question again is, well, pastor, which is it? Is it the Sabbath as we have typically believed or is it the fruit of the spirit? And that's what we're going to talk about today.

I want you to notice with me. I want to deal first with the fruit aspect. I want you to notice with me Psalm chapter 1 beginning with verse one. The Bible says, "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of the sinners, nor siteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law does he meditate day and night." His delight is in the law of the Lord. But what is the law of the Lord? It's the ten commandments. And so we see here that the man who is blessed is the man that is observing the law of God.

Amen. That points us to the Sabbath which is the seal of the law of God. So the question is settled except in the very next verse we read, he shall be like a tree. There it is. I don't know if y'all caught that just now. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of waters that bringeth forth his what? Fruit in his season. His leaves shall not wither and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. The ungodly are not. So So are y'all following this? Yeah. It it appears that the the blessed particularly at the end of time are those who keep the commandments of God, but they're also described as a tree planted by a river whose fruit will flourish.

So the text is actually letting us know that the way that the fruit flourishes is that the tree is planted by a what? A river. A river of water. The tree is nourished. The tree does not produce fruit by itself. Are y'all with me? It produces fruit as a result of being in a place where there is a river that feeds the tree. There is water that is supplying the tree. The tree does not make the fruit on its own. So the tree needs to be in a place that is conducive to the growth of fruit. Are y'all with me?

All right. So, it seems like, oh, well, pastor, then then yeah, the the sealing then would be the seal of the Holy Spirit. That is why we're producing the fruit of the spirit. But I want y'all to notice something else. How many of you familiar with Isaiah 58? Y'all know Isaiah 58? What chapter is that? What's that talking about? It's talking about the Sabbath, right? And and and it's talking about how, you know, the way that the Jews were observing the Sabbath is not what God wanted. But then he goes on to say that this is the fast.

This is what I want you to do. And then he says something that you're going to be like, whoa, wow. Wait a minute. I get this now. Because in Isaiah 58:1, the Bible says, "And the Lord shall guide thee continually. And satisfy thy soul in what? Drought. And make fat thy bones. And thou shalt be like a watered garden and like a spring of water whose waters fail not. Wait a minute. Do y'all see what the Bible just did there? The Bible just said that if you follow the Lord and if you keep the Sabbath in the way that he designed it to be kept, you will be like a watered garden.

Now, why do you all want to be like a watered garden? Why would you want to be like a watered garden? So you could flourish? Because if you are a watered garden, then you are flourishing in fruit. Fruit is growing without your effort. Did y'all catch it just now? But it's interesting. It almost seems like the Sabbath is tied in with the fruit of the spirit. Because in order for the fruit to grow, God says, "How you keep my Sabbath, you will become like a water garden, a water garden who you you will be satisfied in drought."

Now, we know that in a time of trouble, there's going to be a drought. We know there's going to be famine. Except for the people who keep God's commandments, they will not be in famine. They will be like a spring of water or like a watered garden, like a spring of water whose waters fail not. You're going to be producing fruit even when there is no water in other places. Are y'all with me so far? So, so, so I want to read to you Isaiah 61:1 in the ESV version so that you can begin to see how God throughout the Bible equates his people to a garden.

Notice what it says. For as the earth springs forth, it sprouts and as a garden causes, what is sown in it to spring up? Come on now. All right. Yeah. I don't know if y'all caught that just now. As a garden causes. Yeah. Let me ask how many of you would like to produce fruit, good fruit, love, joy, peace. How many of you try real hard to produce fruit? I I need y'all to understand this. The text says, "For as the earth bringeth forth its sprouts and as a garden causes what is sown in it to bring to spring up causes?"

Lord, I'm trying to produce fruit and it's not working too well. Could it be that it's because we're not in the garden? The text goes on to say, "So the Lord God will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all nations." So what I'm trying to get you'all to see here, beloved, is that God is describing his people. He wants his people to be like a well-watered garden. Now, here's something interesting. In the book the in the Song of Solomon, the Song of Solomon, we know that there is a bridegroom.

Who does that represent? Jesus. And then there is a bride. And who does that represent? The church. Notice what Song of Solomon 4:12 says about the bride. Are y'all ready? Are y'all sure y'all ready? Listen to this y'all. Come on now. A garden enclosed is my sister, my spouse. A spring shut up. A fountain se. I'm waiting for y'all to help me. A fountain sealed. Sealed. Yeah. Wait. God's church is like a Let me read it in the ESV. A garden locked is my sister, my bride. A locked garden, a sealed fountain.

A locked garden. H um John Gil, scholar and commentator, what do you have to say about this verse? Well, John Gil says, "The illusion may be to the sealed fountains. great personages reserved for their own use. In other words, only they had access to it. Only they could drink from it. Come on now. No one else had access to it. It was sealed. Y'all not y'all not It was sealed, locked up. No one else had How about this? Adam Clark, what do you have to say about this? And Adam Clark says, "She is unsullied, a chasteed, pure virgin.

None has ever entered into this garden. None has yet tasted of this spring. The seal of this fountain has never been broken. H a virgin. A ver wait a minute. Isn't the description of the 144,000 that they were virgins? Are y'all following this? It's as if God is saying to us, "Listen, I want my people to be like a well-watered garden that the devil cannot get into. It is producing fruit and the devil cannot eat from it. It is producing fruit and the devil cannot get in it to destroy it to to corrupt it.

These are locked gardens, sealed gardens. And what are these gardens doing? They're producing fruit. Why? Because they're in the garden is a river. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Watch this y'all. In the same chapter, Song of Solomon chapter 4. in that same chapter verse verse uh verse 13. So the very next verse notice what it says next of the bride. Thy plants are an orchard or or an orchard of pomegranates with pleasant fruits campfire and spikenard spikenard and and saffron calamus and cinnamon with all trees of frankincense myrr and aloe with all cheese spices a fountain of gardens a well of living waters and streams from Lebanon.

And now notice verse 16. Awake, O north wind, and come thou south. Blow upon my garden, that the spices thereof may flow out. Let my beloved come into his garden and eat of his pleasant fruits. Wow. Wow. Wow. Awake, O north wind, and come thou south. Awake, O winds, and blow. Y'all can blow now because when you blow, all that's going to happen is the fragrance of the fruit. Uh, do y'all remember Revelation chapter 7 where the four angels are holding back the four winds. Those winds are being held back from being blown because God is saying, "Hold on.

Wait a minute. I've got to seal my people. I've got to seal my garden so that when the garden is sealed, when the winds are let loose and the devil is doing everything he can to destroy the people of God, all it's going to do, all it's going to show is the fragrance." Are y'all catching this? The fragrance, that's all these winds are going to prove. The devil says, "Let me let the winds go and and I will prove that that they are not virgins. I will prove that they are not lock gardens. I will prove that they don't have fruit."

But God says, "No, no, no. When the l winds are let loose, all that's going to happen is the sweet fragrance." The sweet fragrance. How many of you want that sweet fragrance? Y'all listen. Listen, this is why Jeremiah 31:12 in the ESV says this, "They shall come and sing aloud on the height of Zion. Their life shall be like a watered garden, and they shall languish no more." Listen, now you begin to understand why in John 15:1, Jesus says, "I am the true vine, and my father is the gardener." My father is the gardener.

How many of you would like to have the gardener work in your garden? How many of you would like to have the gardener? See, we're trying to do we're trying to work on our own gardens. That's a word. I I planted some love today. Well, well, where's the where's the fruit? Well, it takes some time, you know, cuz we don't know what we're doing. We're not gardeners. We can't plant this kind of fruit. Only one can plant the fruit and that is the heavenly father. G this is why Jesus said remain in me and I also in you.

No branch can bear fruit by itself. Are y'all with me? So So we begin to understand then that at the end of time all the devil is seeking to do is attack the sealed gardens. He's trying to get in to the garden. Now, beloved, we cannot do a study on gardens without going back to the original garden. I think y'all knew I was going to go there, huh? We've got to go back to the original garden. And and here's something so powerful, beloved, because in in Genesis 2 8 and 9, the Bible says, "And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed."

In the creation, God put the man in the garden. In the recreation, God put the garden. God puts the garden in the man. Did y'all catch that just now? In the creation, he put the man in the garden. In the recreation, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. In the new creation, in the recreation, he puts the garden in the man. So now beloved, you become this symbol of what happened in creation week. So for example, you might remember that before you came to Christ, you were in absolute darkness, but the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters and God said, "Let there be light."

Y'all remember when light came to you? You remember? You remember when God pulled you out of the waters, day two, baptism, a symbol of rebirth. Do you remember that after you were baptized, God began to bear fruit in your life? Day three, the first fruits came out of the ground. Day four, the greater light and the lesser light. God put a new light in your life, the Bible and the spirit of prophecy. The greater light and the lesser light. On day five, God made you a fisher of men. On day six, he says, "I'm recreating you in my image and in my likeness."

And so when he was done with the creation, when the garden was finished, he seals it. Come on. Yeah, he rests from his work. His work. Yeah, he seals it, beloved. He seals the garden. Notice with me Genesis 1:31. And God saw everything that he made, and behold, it was very good, and the evening and the morning were the sixth day. So when when God gives the Sabbath, watch this. When God gives the Sabbath, it is a sign that showed that the garden was working perfectly. The garden was producing fruit.

The Sabbath was the sign that everything was good. The garden was good. The garden was producing fruit. So God seals what is producing. Yeah. Yeah. What is replicating? So Genesis 2 verse one, thus the heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had which he had made and rested on the seventh day from all his work which he which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it because in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.

The garden was perfect. Now why was the garden growing fruit? I will tell you why. Because in Genesis 2:10, the Bible says, "And a river went out of Eden." [Music] A river went out of Eden to water the garden. Are y'all Are y'all Are y'all feeling this? Are y'all catching this? a garden a a river went out of Eden to water the garden and from then it was parted and became into four heads. So y'all know the names of the rivers. The first was Pyon verse 12 and the gold of the land was good and the name of the second river is Guehon and the name of the third river is Ethiopia and and then the last one I'm sorry is Hiddakel and then the last one in verse 14 is Euphrates.

And I said hm I wonder if these names have any meaning. And you know what these names have meaning? Would you like to know what they mean? Here it goes y'all. Pyson means increasing overflow. Gihon means gushing forth. Hiddel means rapid. And Euphrates means fruitfulness. Hold on. Hold on. Could it be possible that those who are dwelling in the garden will experience an increasing overflow, a gushing forth of rapid fruitfulness? Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Could it be possible that those who are sealed, those who are walking in the rest of God will experience in their lives an increasing, overflowing, gushing forth a rapid producing of fruitfulness.

Wow. Wow. So the Sabbath then listen, a working garden produces fruit and this is what God seals. So the question is, what does a working garden look like? What does a working garden look like? Well, to find out what a working garden looks like for us, all we need to do is go back to Isaiah 58. You remember that? Yeah. You remember how in Isaiah 58, God is saying, listen, y'all fast for strife. You fast for this. And and like that's not what I called you to do. Right? And then he says then he says in verse in verse 5, "Is is it such a fast that I've chosen a day for a man to afflict his soul?

Is it to bow down his head as a bull rush to spread sackcloth and ashes unto him? Will thou call this a fast and acceptable day to the Lord? Is not this a fast I have chosen to loose the bands of wickedness to undo the heavy burdens to let the oppressed go free and that you break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house when thou seest the naked? That thou cover him cover him and that you hide not yourself from your own flesh?

Do you realize that to do these things requires, love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness. It's as if he's saying, "Listen y'all, the way that I want you to observe the Sabbath will be the very means of producing the fruit you need to stand in the time of trouble, caring about others, helping others, pouring out into others." It's literally what the text says. And watch this. It doesn't say to do it on the Sabbath or just on the Sabbath. It means you're doing it every other day of the week so that when the Sabbath rolls around, God says, "Here is the evidence that you've had the fruit of the spirit growing in you throughout the week."

Word. Did y'all catch that just now? You can come to church every Sabbath and have never kept a Sabbath. That's what I'm trying to say. You could come You You see, you spent the week cursing people out. Come on. You spent the week angry. You spent the week without joy. You spent the week with all those things and then you come to church and you come to church happy. Happy Sabbath. Yeah. God says you haven't kept the Sabbath. The Sabbath is the seal that you lived the week before the way I asked you to.

It's the seal that the fruit of the spirit have been flowing through you that you've been living in the garden. And the Sabbath is the seal, the sign of something. It is not the thing itself. Did y'all catch that? It is not the thing itself. It is a sign of something else. And what is that something else? That something else is the fruit is growing. The fruit is growing. So now check this out y'all. Y'all never saw this before. Y'all ready for this? Y'all ready for this? Watch this y'all. In Ezekiel 36, why do we go to Ezekiel 36?

Right? We go there to talk about the what? Come on. Something that God says he promises in Ezekiel 36. It's the new heart, right? The new covenant. And we know that the covenant is God writing his law on our hearts, which is in essence God sealing his people. Are y'all with me? So, so watch this. Watch this. In Ezekiel 36:28, here's what the text says. And you shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people. Verse 27. I'm sorry. Verse. No, no, no. I'm sorry. Verse 24.

Oh, 24. For I will take you from among the heathen, and gather you out of all countries, and bring you into your own land. It's almost reminiscent of God saying, I'm going to bring these Israelites, these Israelites, these tribes of Israel into their own land symbolically. Think seal of God with me. Think Revelation chapter 7 with me. Notice what it says next. Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean from all your filthiness, and from all your idols will I cleanse you. A new heart also will I give you, and a new what?

Spirit will I put within you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you, and cause you cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my judgments, and shall do them. How many of you would like to be caused? Yeah. How many of you would like to be caused? I was caused to do this. Why are you loving? So, I was caused to do it. I was caused. That's a t-shirt. I was caused. I was caused. I will cause you. Right.

And now notice verse 28. And you shall dwell on the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. I will also save you from your uncleanness, and I will call for the corn, and will increase it, and lay no famine upon you, and I will multiply the fruit of the tree. Come on, y'all. The increase of the field that you shall receive no more reproach or famine among the heathen. Thus sayeth the Lord, this is verse 33. In that day shall I that I have shall have cleansed you from all your iniquities.

I will also cause you to dwell in the cities and the waste places shall be built. Does Isaiah 58 you will be called the repairers of the breach, the restorer of the waste places. Notice what the text says next. And the desolate land shall be tilled. And the desolate land, the desolate land shall be tilled. Yes. where whereas it lay desolate in the sight of all that passed by. And they shall say, can y'all read this with me? Is it up on the screen? And they shall say, read this with me y'all. The land that was desolate.

Come on now. Is become like what? The garden. Do y'all understand that God is trying to make us gardenarted? That's what he's trying to do. He's trying to make us gardenarted. In Genesis 2:15, the Bible says, "And the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it." Listen y'all, all Adam had to do was to keep what God had already provided. Y'all didn't feel that. Y'all didn't Did you feel that? Adam did not have to toil and sweat and labor to keep because God had already given it.

So all Adam had to do was to preserve. Y'all y'all All he had to do was preserve the fruit. Are y'all following? That's all he had to do. It It's as if the garden was the ecosystem for good fruit to grow. God is trying to put us in an ecosystem in which our fruit grows effortlessly. But we all know the story, right? Adam and Eve sinned. And when they sin, when they sin, when they sinned, now in order to produce fruit, they had to work the toil in the sweat of thy brow. Listen to me, y'all. Righteousness should be no sweat.

Mercy. Y did y'all Let me Let me try that a different way. Uh how else can I say I can't say but any other way righteousness should be no sweat if you are working to produce fruit I'm working on this smile y'all happy Sabbath all is well yes I love you brother if you're working on joy and peace and love it's It's a sign God is trying to tell us. Listen y'all, it's the sign that you're operating under you're operating under the curse. You're operating in the flesh. What I need you to do is to go back to Eden.

What I need you to do is go to that place where there is a river that that produces that causes fruit to grow. Because if you're working fruit, if you're sweating to produce fruit, something's not going right. And you will fail over and over and over and over. Y'all understand that it is after Adam and Eve sinned that the first thorns and the weeds and the tears began to grow. How are y'all doing so far? What is the work of the flesh? Then the text tells us the works of the flesh in Galatians 5:19, the works of the flesh are the which are manifest are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft.

Beloved, could it be possible that all the mark of the beast, all the seal of God is is showing who has the fruit of the spirit, while all the mark of the beast is is showing these are the people that get angry easily, mercy, that will kill. Yeah. That have no patience, no mercy, no longsuffering. That's all it is. And so for I think for a long time we've just gotten caught up in if you if you keep this day mark and if this day is enforced uh if you keep this day seal and this day mark when could it be that God is saying no y'all these are just signs of something much greater.

Yeah. You see beloved when a garden is kept it's a garden but when it is left alone it becomes a wilderness. It becomes a wilderness. And what is a wilderness? A wilderness is where wild things grow. Are y'all Are you wild at heart, pastor? I can't help you. And I'm just wild at heart. I got to do my own thing. I got to live my own way. How many of you, beloved, are suffering from being wild at heart? Don't raise your hand. Don't raise your hand. So then, so then, watch this, y'all. The the seal of God is a reflection of those who are gardenhearted while the mark of the beast is a reflection of those who are really deep down wild at hearts.

So the question is when Adam and Eve sin, you remember God put them out of the garden. The plan of salvation is really then all about how do we get back into the garden. But remember when God put Adam and Eve out of the garden, he put a flaming sword to keep the way of the tree of life. Meaning the only way back into the garden would have been through death. Hold on. Yeah. Take time. Take time. Do Do you It's as if God is showing us, he's using the garden and the wilderness to teach us an object lesson of the work he wants to do in us.

So you remember when the children of Israel were in Egypt, right? They were in captivity, bondage of sin, and then God comes to deliver them and they cross the Red Sea, a symbol of baptism. And then where do they begin their journey? The wilderness. Where are they going? What is the promised land about? It's a land flowing with milk and honey. A fruit a fruitful land. Beloved, watch this y'all. In the in children of Israel's march from the wilderness to the fruitful land, God is so listen. Y'all are wild at heart.

And I'm trying to lead you from being wild at heart to being gardenhearted. In fact, when when when they send the 10 spies, the 12 spies, they go to check out the fruit of the land and they come back and say, "Man, we are able to go up and possess this. Look at the fruit of this place." Where did Jesus start his ministry? Come on, y'all. Where did Jesus start his ministry? He started it in the wilderness. How long did the spies go out to spy? You anybody remember? 40 days. And when they came back, they were like, "Yo, look at the fruit."

Jesus begins his ministry in the wilderness. He's saying, "I'm coming to the wild at heart. I have come for the wild at." How many of you Let me ask the safe question. How many of you have at one time been wild at heart? That's a safe question. If you at one I I didn't ask you still now. I didn't ask. I just said at that's a safe at one time. Amen. You've experienced what it is to be wild. Jesus said, "I've come for the wild at heart." And for 40 days, Jesus fasts and then he overcomes the devil.

And he's coming back to us to say, "Look at the fruit. Look at the fruit. Look at what can be produced for those who trust in God. His whole life was basically look at the fruit. Look at the fruit. Look at the fruit. Y'all y'all understand that God is trying to show us something that I think for many of us we have missed. His whole life was the fruit. So now the question again is how do we get back to that place? How do we get into the garden? Come on. Come on. John 12:24 Jesus says something very interesting before he was going to die.

He said, "Verily I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit." Jesus is talking about his own death. Are you with me? So Jesus says, "Hey, I'm going to die to bring forth much fruit." And then Jesus dies. Anybody know where he Jesus died? Calvary. And then he's buried. Yeah. So this Jesus who is a seed dies and is buried. He's planted. He's planted. The question is who planted him? In John 19:41, I kid you not.

Now in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden. Yeah. And in the garden, a new supplicer wherein man never yet. Listen. Jesus dies and he's literally planted. Come on y'all. He is planted in a Now, now you remember that that that that when Jesus resurrects, right, three days later, and Mary goes, she's looking for him, and then she she sees Jesus, but doesn't know it's him, and she's crying and and and uh Jesus saith unto her,"Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou?" And the text says, she supposing him, Oh, she's supposeding him to be the gardener.

Let me ask y'all a question, y'all. How many of you would like the father and the son as team gardeners? She's supposeding him to be the gardener. She supposed correctly. He was gardener. And now he says, "Listen, for those of you that want to follow me, take up your cross and follow me." What does it mean to take up your cross? It means to die. The only way to get access back into the garden to get access to the tree of life, the tree upon which Jesus died on. The only way to get access back into the garden is to die.

There you have it. There it is. There it is. The mark of the beast is the symbol of those who do not have the spirit. The seal of God is the symbol that the garden has been locked. No one can get in. It is God saying, "Shut the doors." Y'all didn't catch that. You didn't catch that. You didn't catch that. Don't let anybody in. And no one's going out. God's people are locked in with him. Shut the door. I I should have called the sermon that. Shut the door. Can y'all say it with me? Shut the door.

God wants the doors of his garden to be shut, sealed, so that the enemy cannot come in and God's people refuse to go out. No, we're not going out. I'm not going out like that. We're not going out like that. And so, beloved, the mark, listen, let me say it again. You can come to church every seventh day and not be keeping the Sabbath. Let our prayer be, Lord, teach me how to dwell in your rest. I I no longer want to struggle to produce fruit. Cause me, Lord, to love. Cause me. Let that be your prayer.

I I'm I will not toil in sweat any longer. Lord, cause me. I'm here, Lord. Cause me, please. That's my only prayer. Lord, cause me to love. Cause me to have joy. Cause me to have peace. Let it not be my own. I have given you the Sabbath that you may know that I sanctify you. You cannot sanctify yourself. I sanctify you. That's what the Sabbath is a sign of. The devil thought he could sanctify himself. So many of us think we can sanctify ourselves. So many of us think, "Hey, I can produce this fruit.

Just watch me." We got to get to the place where we say, "Lord, Teach me to rest. Teach me to enter into your rest. Hebrews chapter 3. Hebrews chapter 4. Remember it was because they doubted the fruit when they saw Joshua and and Caleb saying, "Look at the fruit." And they said, "Nah, we can't do that. We can't get in there." And it is that moment where God said, "You shall not enter into my rest. You all will die in the wilderness." die in the where wilderness. Lord, help us not to die in the wilderness.

Help us to live in the garden. Thank you, Father. Thank you for speaking to us today. Lord, I'm making an appeal and it is this. There are people here who have been working and toiling and sweating to produce fruit. And perhaps they didn't know, perhaps they didn't understand. But Lord, today they understand that it is not about work, it is about rest. Yeah. And that's why the Sabbath is the perfect sign because the Sabbath is the sign that the fruit is being produced effortlessly. Yeah, it is the sign that we are truly resting in you and you are flowing through us.

The river of life is producing the fruit. The fruit is really there. We we are really acting upon it but it is your work not ours. And so Lord today there are those who want to say I want to stop. I want to stop sweating. If that's your desire, I'm going to ask you to just stand where you are. I want you to even come down to the front and we're going to pray a special prayer. Lord, I'm tired of sweating. I want this fruit to be produced to be caused. If that's your desire, please just come meet me at the front.

And it doesn't have to be all of you. I'm not asking everybody to stand. I'm just saying you're convicted and you're saying, "Lord, I'm tired. Tired of toiling. I'm tired of working under the curse. Help me, help me to rest in you, heavenly father. Thank you for your amazing grace. Thank you for your patience with us. Thank you, Lord, for showing us that it is not about us. It is not about our works. It is about your work. You rested from your work. Lord, we want to give you the permission because of our freedom of choice to work in us and then be able to rest from your work.

Cause us, Lord. Produce that fruit in us, Lord. Let righteousness flow through us naturally, not from ourselves, but from your spirit. Seal us and make us gardenhearted. Remove the tears out of our hearts. And may we be, as Isaiah 58 says, that wellwatered garden whose springs fail not. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for hearing and answering our prayer because we ask it in the precious and holy name of Jesus. Let everyone say amen and amen. You may be seated. That was tough. Like I