Heat. Heat. Heat up [Music] Heat up here. Amen. Amen. Um that opening uh graphic team, well done. Well done. Well done. You all put a one in the chat if you are ready to get into the word of God uh this morning. We're going to be looking especially um at Jesus in a very beautiful way today. uh we're going to pull we're going to pull some some very powerful lessons from the scripture. And so again, if you're ready to get into the chat into the into the uh sermon today, um put a one in the chat um if you want others to be a part of this blessing, share this link.

Share this link. Uh, in fact, throughout this sermon, I think instead of saying put a one in the chat, I'm going to say if you understand, if you're if you are liking what you're hearing, I'm gonna ask you to hit that share button. That's what I'm going to ask. I'm going to ask you to hit that like button. I'm going to ask you to hit that subscribe button. Um, so we can get this message out, so we can share this living manner. So, let's pray you all. We're going to jump into the scriptures. Uh, let's seek the Lord's face now.

Heavenly Father, Lord, we ask that you would please speak to us again, Lord. Open your word, open our hearts, grant us wisdom and understanding. We pray this in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. Trusting the son of David. Trusting the son of David. Let's go to the screen. Let's go to the screen and I want you to note with me the book of Luke chapter 1 beginning with verse 31. Luke 1:31. The Bible says, "And behold, thou shalt conceive, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus.

He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord shall give unto him the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no end. The Bible tells us that this savior who was to come into the world, his name would be called Jesus. His name would be called Jesus. He would reign and of his kingdom there would be no end. There would be no end. The Bible tells us in Luke 22 and verse 21, "And when eight days were accomplished uh for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus, which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb.

It was on the eighth day that Jesus received his name." Um, I want you to keep this in mind as we begin to walk through these verses. The Bible says in Matthew 1:21, "And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins." This is why he was to receive the name Jesus because he would save his people from their sins. Again in John 1 29 the Bible says in John the next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith behold the lamb of God which taketh away the sins or the sin of the world.

It was God's lamb that took away our sin. Y'all put a one in the chat if you're following so far. It was God's lamb that took away our sins. We ought to be thankful for this because the Bible tells us in Romans chapter 6 23 that the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And so Jesus came into this world. He came into this world as as a sacrifice. His name was called Jesus. He is known as the son of David. And again in Matthew 1:21, we find the Bible saying the book of the generations of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.

Why is Jesus called the son of David? That's what we want to find out How does his birth lead to the taking away of our sins which we earned? Because the wages of sin is death. To understand this, to understand why Jesus is called the son of David and how this term son of David encapsulates so much in the plan of salvation, we need to go back to David's story. And that's what we're going to do. Because beloved, no one knows more about the forgiveness of sins than David, who wrote these very words in Psalm 51, beginning with verse one.

He said, "Have mercy upon me, oh God, according to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies. Blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee only have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity. In sin did my mother conceive me.

Behold, thou desireest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part, thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hissup, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. No one knows more about forgiveness, the forgiveness of God, the mercy of God, than does David. And you might ask, why? How? How do you why do you say this about David? And the answer is found in the book of 2 Samuel chap 11. Please note it with me. 2 Samuel 11 beginning with verse 1. 2 Samuel chap 11. The Bible says, "And it came to pass after the year was expired at the time when kings go forth to battle that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel.

And they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabba." But David carried still at Jerusalem. And it came to pass in the evening tide that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house. And from the roof he saw a woman washing herself. And the woman was very beautiful to look upon. And David sent and inquired after the woman. And one said, "Is this is this not Basheba, the daughter of Iliam, the wife of Uriah the Hitittite?" And David sent messengers and took her, and she came in unto him, and he lay with her, for she was purified from her uncleanness, and she returned unto her house.

And the woman conceived and sent and told David, and said, I am with child. You understand the dilemma of this story? David has just committed the act of adultery. He has gotten Bashibba pregnant and now he is in a dilemma. What is he going to do? The Bible tells us that that uh Basheba was the wife of a man named Uriah. Note with me verse 6. 2 Samuel 11:6. And David sent to Joab, saying, "Send, send me Uriah the Hitittite." And Joab sent Uriah to David. And when Uriah was come unto him, David demanded of him how Joab did, and how the people did, and how the war prospered.

And David said to Uriah, "Go down to thy house, and wash thy feet." And Uriah departed out of the king's house. And there followed him a mess of meat from the king. Notice this. But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and went not down to his house. And when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down to his house, David said unto Uriah, Camest thou not from thy journey? Why then did thou not go down unto thine house? Verse 11. And Uriah said unto David, "The ark and Israel and Judah abide in tents, and my lord Joab and thy servants of the of thy of my lord are encamped in the open fields.

Shall I then go into my house to eat and to drink and to lie with my wife? As thou livest and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing." Now, let's break this down for a moment. Let's let's understand what's going on here. Uriah is a faithful soldier for David. He is so faithful that when David calls him back, you understand, to set Uriah up, to try to get Uriah to go and lay with his wife so that Uriah will ultimately believe that the pregnancy is his child. Uriah says, "David, listen. I am so loyal to you that it would be sin for me to go and lay with my wife while there is a battle going on on your behalf.

Now, I want y'all to think that through for a moment. Here David is betraying one of his own that is so faithful to him that is such a right hand man to him that he refuses to even go lay with his wife while his brethren are on the battlefield fighting on behalf of David. Now watch this going back to the screen. Verse 12. And David said to Uriah, "Tarry here today also tomorrow. I will let you depart." And so Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day and tomorrow. And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him, and made him drunk.

And at evening, he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord, but went not down to his house. Uriah even in his drunken state was like, "Nah, my loyalties are with David." And so what happens? The Bible says in verse 14, "And it came to pass in the morning that David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah. And he wrote in the letter saying, "Set Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle and retire from him that he may be smitten and die." wow. Now, hold on a moment because I want to pull a a a lesson from this.

And in order to pull that lesson, you're going to need to see something. Because the name Uriah, let's go to the screen. The name Uriah, as you can see here from the Strong's concordance, literally means flame of Jah. Flame of Jah. Beloved, when you think about the day of Pentecost when fire fell down upon the disciples, I want you to understand that that was the flame of Jah. So, let's break that down for a moment. And if you if y'all are already a step ahead of me, I need you to hit that subscribe button or that share button or that like button because y'all about to get something very powerful.

You see, beloved, the Holy Spirit is to us like that right-hand man that will do anything for us to succeed. Flame of God. But I want you to understand, beloved, that when David does wrong, when David does wrong, every time he thinks of Uriah, it's like this burning conviction in his heart, this burning conviction in his mind. The spirit of God, the flame of God will not leave him alone. Are y'all catching this? The flame of God will not leave him alone. But what is David now trying to do? He's trying to get rid of the flame of God.

He's trying to quiet his conscience. He's trying to remove that conviction. He's trying to kill the flame of jaw. How many of us in our pursuit of sin, in our pursuit of the things that are designed to separate us from God, how many of us so often try to quiet the flame of jaw? How many of us do exactly what the text says in the book of Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 30? grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed unto the day of redemption. How many of us don't realize that the spirit of God has been sent to us to fight for us, to protect us?

The spirit of God says, "I'm not leaving you. I will do nothing to leave you. No, I will sleep outside of your door at night. I will listen. I while you are in battle, while you are in conflict, while you are fighting for your soul, the jaw, the flame of jaw says, "I will not leave you nor forsake you." And the only way, beloved, we can get rid of the flame of jaw is to silence him. Are y'all with me so far? The only way we can get rid of the flame of jaw is to shut him out. Is to try to distance ourselves and in essence kill the voice of the spirit to our minds.

And how many of us have been guilty of doing this very same thing? David and trying to cover up his sin. David in trying to hide his sin gets rid of the convicting presence of the flame of Jah. And you know what? David lives life covered up. Perhaps for the next several days, we're not told, but the next several days, the next several weeks, the next several months, David is living as though nothing has happened. Everything is good. In fact, in verse 27, after the news hits uh uh um Basheba that his her husband is dead, the Bible says, "And when the morning was passed, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife and bare him a son.

But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord." Please understand, beloved, that God is always watching. God always sees. And even though David had rejected the spirit of ja, God does not give up on David. Somebody needs to say amen. God did not give up on David. He sent the prophet Nathan to him. Understand that the prophet the prophets represent the spirit of prophecy which is the Holy Spirit. And so even though God David had rejected the spirit of God in one form, the spirit of God fighting for David comes at him again.

How many of you praise God that God doesn't leave you alone? How many of you praise God that he doesn't just forsake you, that he continues to fight for you and he never gives up on us? So the prophet Nathan comes to David and we see in 2 Samuel chapter 12, here is how the approach happens. Here is how the confrontation happens. The Bible says, "And the Lord sent Nathan unto David and he came unto him and said unto him, there were two men in one city, the one rich and the other poor. The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing, saving one little u lamb, which he brought and nourished up.

And it grew up together with him, and with his children, and it did eat his own meat, and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was as unto him a daughter. And there came a traveler unto the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock, of his own herd, to dress for the wayfairing man that was come unto him, but took the poor man's lamb, and dressed it for the man that was come to him. And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man, and he said to Nathan, "As the Lord liveth, the man that has done this thing shall surely die."

Y'all get what's going on here? Nathan lays out this parable. He says there was one man that had everything and another man that had nothing. All he had was this one little lamb and the lamb was to him as his own blood. And so a wayfairing man comes along and the rich man instead of sacrificing one of his own lambs takes this poor man's lamb and sacrifices him. Obviously Nathan is relaying exactly what David the king of Israel had done to Uriah. David had everything at his fingertips. But what does he do?

He takes Uriah's wife. And David's response is, "The man who did this thing, the man who who who in this account you're telling me, Nathan, has taken somebody else's belonging, that man should David pronounces judgment upon himself without knowing it." Might I add a lesson here? Might I add something much deeper? Because you see, beloved, it is because of our sin that God had to give up his lamb, his beloved son. Note the text again. John 1:29. Behold the lamb. Not Tina, not of Gabriel, not of Harry.

The lamb of God, God's lamb. Behold the lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. In this parable, this lamb was used to feed the wayfairing man. I want you to understand in this very same sense, the Bible says in John 6:53, Jesus said unto them, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, except you eat the flesh of the son of man and drink his blood, you have no life in you." What I want you to understand, beloved, is that this this story of of of of of David is going to give us incredible insight as to what Jesus himself did on our behalf.

Watch, watch, follow along. Remember, David has just said, "The man who does this should die." David confesses it with his own mouth. I think back to Proverbs where where where the son of God is described as being brought up with the father as being uh uh from his youth almost as if the description of this lamb who was brought up. The only thing he had was Islam is in fact a powerful parallel to to the lamb of God who had to be given up on account of our sin. And so and so remember remember what happens.

David's anger was greatly kindled verse 5 against the man and said to Nathan, "As the Lord liveth, the man that has done this thing shall surely die, and he shall restore the lamb four-fold because he did this thing and because he had no pity." And Nathan said to David, "Thou art the man, thus say the Lord God of Israel, I anointed thee king over Israel, and I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul." You know, he goes on to say, he goes on to just rebuke David. And then I want you to check this out because in verse 13, after the rebuke, David says unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord.

Let's pause for a second. Let's just come back to the screen. David says to Nathan, he acknowledges his sin. He says, I have sinned against the Lord. Beloved, that is something so crucial. We ought to acknowledge our sin when we sin against the Lord. And I want you to note the very next verse. Nathan said unto David, "The Lord has put away thy sin. Thou shalt not die." Y'all go ahead and put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat. If you are thankful for the mercy of God, put a one in the chat.

If you are thankful for the mercy of God, I'm going to ask my my tech team if they could refresh my uh reream link because it is it's now paused. I know that everybody is still on and watching, but I I just cannot see it. So, team, if you could refresh that um uh the reream link for me, that would be great. The Lord forgives David. The prophet says, "The Lord has put away thy sin. Thou shalt not die." But here's what I need you to understand, beloved, that all sin comes at a cost. All sin comes at a cost.

Put hit subscribe if you're following what I'm saying. Hit the share button if you're understanding the gravity of what you're hearing and what you are about to hear. Because I want you to note with me that David is forgiven. David is forgiven. The Bible says, the Bible says, uh, in fact, the very next verse, and and I, wow, I cannot believe I don't even have this in my slide, but verse 14, if someone can put that in the in the chat for me, that would be excellent. Verse 14, the Bible says that though David was forgiven, watch this, the child that Basheba was pregnant with was would die.

The child would die. Watch this now. David gets to live, but the child dies. Come on, y'all. Come on, watch this. Isaiah 53:3 and 4. The Bible says of Jesus, "He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with our grief, and we hid as it were our faces from him. He was despised and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted." Listen to me. Listen to me. David. David. lives but the child dies.

I need you to understand the significance because the child died on the seventh day. He would have been named on the eighth day had he lived that long. But he died on the seventh day after his birth. Meaning he never got a name. So all we know about this child is that the child was a male child and this male child would then be known as the son of David. The son of David. This son of David was brought into the world on account of somebody else's sin. And though he was innocent and had done no wrong, he dies in the place of the innocent.

In the place of the guilty. The innocent dies in the place of the guilty. And now I need you to understand something called justification by faith. Because this is what the story of the son of David teaches us. The lamb of God was brought into this account of our sins. And though he was innocent, the son of David died that we might live. This is what is called justification by faith. Jesus died to justify us. You all put a share. Hit that share button if you understand the point. Don't say amen, hit share.

Hit share. Don't say amen. Hit like. Help others to understand how unfair it live while the son of God died in our place that we might live. But beloved, that is the mercy of God. That is the mercy of God. And so here is the story of the son of David. But the son of David's story does not end there. You may have even heard me share this before, but listen to me. The son of David's story does not end there. Let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen. He was wounded for our transgressions.

He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes, we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray and have turned to his own way. And the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. He took that iniquity. Now watch this. So the son of David dies but that is not the end of the son of David because the Bible says in 2 Samuel verse 12 24 after this death David comforted Basheba his wife and went in unto her and lay with her and she bare a son and he called his Solomon and the Lord loved him and he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet and called his name Jedodiah because of Lord.

So the son of David does not end with the son of David because the son of David analogy continues on now in the form of Solomon. The name Jedodiah literally means the loved of God. The loved of God. which is so interesting because in Matthew 3:16-1 17 the Bible says and when Jesus was baptized he went up straightway out of the water and lo the heavens were open unto him and he saw the spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting upon him and lo a voice from heaven saying this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased you see beloved not only was the first son of David a type of Jesus's uh uh uh coming into this world on account of our sin and dying that we might be saved.

But then the next son of David, Solomon, continues the type. You say, "How pastor, please note, please note verse 12. First Kings 2:12, then sat Solomon upon the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was established greatly." Are y'all catching this? Are y'all catching this? When does Jesus sit on the throne of his father? It is when he ascends to heaven. So watch this then. Under the first son of David, you have here the type of Jesus being brought into the world on account of somebody else's sin and died even though he was innocent.

died on behalf of the guilty that the guilty might live. That is the first son of David. The story then picks up with the second son of David, Solomon, who ascends to the throne of his father. Do y'all catch this? In these two sons of David, you have one picture of the son of David who came into this world on account of somebody else's sin, died in our place that we might might live and then ascend to his father's throne. H watch this. It doesn't stop there. It doesn't stop there. What does he do once he's on the throne?

Notice with me first Kings chapter 3 2 and 4 2-4. So the Bible says only the people sacrificed in high places because there was no house built in unto the name of the Lord until those days. And Solomon loved the Lord walking in the statutes of David his father. Only he sacrificed and burnt in high places. And the king went to Gibian to sacrifice there. For that there for that was the great high place. A thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon a ram. In Gibian, the Lord I'm sorry, we're gonna just skip that verse I just read.

We're gonna focus on this verse. In Gibian, the Lord appeared unto Solomon in the dream by night and said as this is this is afterward. Okay? So, so let's just go back and I want I don't want to lose you here. So Solomon ascends to his father's throne and the correct verse we should have just read is right here. As he's about to take rule, the Bible says verse five, in Gibian, the Lord appeared to Solomon in dream by a night. In a dream by night. And God said, "Ask what I shall give thee." And Solomon said, "Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth and in righteousness, and an uprightness of heart with thee.

And thou has kept for him this great kindness, that thou has given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day." Okay, watch this. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge this thy so great a people? Hm. What is Jesus rece what is Solomon I'm sorry. What is Solomon receiving as he enters as he sits upon his father's throne. Judgment's going to be given unto him. Judgment's going to be given unto him.

Not only will this be part of his work, but but let's notice First Kings chapter 5:1. First Kings chapter 5:1. And Hyram, king of Ty, sent his servants unto Solomon, for he had heard that they had anointed him king in the room of his father. For Hyram was ever a lover of David. And Solomon sent to Hyram, saying, Thou knowest how that David my father could not build a house unto the name of the Lord his God, for the wars which were about him on every side, until the Lord put them under the souls of his feet.

Watch this. But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side, so that there is neither adversary nor evil occurren. And behold, I purposed to build and a house unto the name of the Lord my God. As the Lord spake unto David my father, saying, "Thy son, whom I will set upon thy throne in thy room, he shall build an house unto my name." So, I want you to check this out, y'all. Solomon, the first son of David, was brought into the world on account of someone else's sin. died that the guilty might live even though he was innocent.

The second son of David, ascends to the throne of his father and is commissioned to prepare a place. Y'all go ahead and put a share. Hit that share button if you understand what I just said. Hit that like button if you're like, "Oh, wait a minute. What just happened?" Solomon is commissioned to prepare a place. Yes. If you're thinking, beloved, with me, John 14 verse 1-3, which reads, "Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions.

If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be. Also, I need you to understand that when you put the stories of the two sons of David together, you're actually seeing a picture of the one son of David. You're actually seeing a picture of Jesus who ascended to the throne of his father to build a place to build a place for us to build a house on behalf of his father.

And this is why the beloved, the Bible says in Zechariah chapter 6:12, "Behold the man whose name is the branch. He shall build the temple of the Lord, even he shall build the temple of the Lord, and he shall bear the glory and shall sit and rule upon his throne." Or there is Ephesians chapter 2 19 which says now therefore you are of the household of God and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord.

So here's what I need you to understand. Not only has Jesus gone to build a place for us in heaven, but he's also building a house for God on earth. What do you mean building a house for God on earth? Well, let me show you. 1 Corinthians 3:16 tells it plainly, "Know you not that you are the temple of God, and that the spirit of God dwelleth in you? If any man defile the temple, him shall God destroy. For the temple of God is holy, which temple you are. Beloved, watch this. Jesus is building a house in heaven for us, and he's building a house on earth for God.

That's what the son of David is doing. This is why the Bible says in 1 Peter chapter 2:4 and 5, to whom coming as unto a living stone, ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood. And Colossians 2:6 says, "As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith, as you have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving." So beloved, this building of the temple is what we would now call sanctification.

So watch this. In the first son of David, you have the picture of justification. Jesus dying on our behalf. Even though we were guilty, he dies in our place that we may live. the first son of David, the one that has no name, the one that died on the seventh day and therefore was not aimed named on the eighth day. So all we know of him is that he's the son of David. That first son signifies justification by faith. Whereas the second son of David, Solomon, is now building. He's doing a work that is progressive, that is going on and on and on, which signifies the the the the the walk of sanctification or the work of sanctification in the Christian life.

If you're with me so far, if you appreciate what you have heard, what you are hearing, what are you supposed to do? You're supposed to hit that share button. You're supposed to hit that like button. You're supposed to say, "How can we get others to hear what we are hearing right now?" Beloved, listen to me. In the two sons of David, you have not only a picture of Jesus in his birth, life, death, burial, but you also have a picture of Jesus in his resurrection, ascension to heaven, sitting on the throne of his father and and and and and preparing a place not only for for uh for us in heaven, but for his father on earth.

Are y'all with me so far? That work signifies sanctification. Whereas the work of the first son of David signifies justification. Now, now I want you to note this because there is something that happens. D the son of David uh gets to the place where he's about to do the finishing touches on the work of the sanctuary. And what does the Bible tell us about this last work? Please note with me First Kings chapter 8. The Bible says in verse one, "Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel unto the king unto King Solomon in Jerusalem, that they might bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of the city of David, which is in Zion.

And all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the King Solomon at the feast in the month Enom, which is in the seventh month. Uh, and the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark, and they brought up the ark of the of the Lord, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle. Even these did the priests and the Levites bring up. And King Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel that were assembled unto him were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen that could not be told for number.

I need y'all to understand. I need y'all to understand what's going on here. Let's keep reading. And the priest brought the ark of the covenant of the Lord unto his place, into the oracle of the house, to the most holy place, even under the wings of the cherubams. For the cherubam spread forth their two wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubams covered the ark, and the stabs thereof above. Keep reading. Oh, no, no, no. Let's not keep reading. Let's pause for a second. Y'all come back. Y'all come back.

How y'all doing? How are y'all doing? The final work of Solomon in structuring the temple was bringing the ark into the temple. Is that not the closing work of the gospel? I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven having the everlasting gospel to preach unto every nation kindred and tongue with a loud voice saying fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgment is come and worship him that made heaven the earth the sea and the fountains of waters isn't the work of God isn't the work of Jesus to write the law in the hark in the hark that is not my Jamaican accent of saying ark it is a word I'm making up to to combine the word heart with ark in the ark.

Is not the work of Jesus to put the law of God in the ark? Is not that the new covenant? Is the seal of God not to seal the law among his disciples? It is such a powerful thought that in this story of the son of David, which is actually broken up into two sons of David, we have the story of Jesus's birth, life, death, burial, resurrection on our behalf, his ascension into heaven into his onto his father's throne. his his work of building a temple in heaven for us while building a house for God on this earth in our hearts that when he closes the work the final work will be the ark that is brought into will be the law of God that has been brought into heart Revelation 11:18 the Bible says and the nations were angry and thy wrath has come in the time of the dead that they should be judged that thou should give reward unto thy servants of prophets and to the saints and them that fear thy name small and great which should destroy the them which destroy the earth and wow I really don't have verse 19 in here but let me tell it to you anyway the Bible says the temple of God was open in heaven and there was seen the ark the ark of his testament beloved could it be that what we're reading in sec in in in in in the story of the son of David is that the final work of the final work of the son of David has to do with the ark has to do with the law of God being placed being brought the the simultaneously while he's completing the temple in heaven there is seen in heaven the ark of his testament and while he's completing the temples on earth he is bringing to the minds of the people and to the hearts of the people.

The law of God, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And now watch this. After the ark has been placed in the tabernacle, what happens next? What happens next? What happens next? First Kings chapter 8:10 tells us, "And it came to pass when the priests were come out of the holy place that the cloud filled the house of the Lord. So that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud. For the glory of the Lord had filled the house of the Lord. The glory of God was so powerful."

Come on y'all. Come on y'all. When the work was finished, the spirit of God fills the temple. Later, somebody the spirit of God fills the temple. Beloved, we can understand the significance of this because in Revelation 15:8, the Bible says, "And the temple was filled with the smoke from the glory of God and from his power." Notice it on the screen. And no man was able to enter into the temple till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled. So I need y'all to understand this in a spiritual sense.

When the spirit of God fills the temple on earth, no it's sealed. Nobody can enter into it. When the spirit of God, when the glory of God fills the temple in heaven, it's time for the plagues to fall. What a powerful parallel, y'all. What a powerful parallel. And and here's what's so powerful about it. Watch this. Let's go back to the screen. First Kings chapter 9 vers 1 and 2. And it came to pass when Solomon had finished building the house of the Lord and the king's house and all Solomon's desires which he had pleased to do that the Lord appeared to Solomon the second time.

So this is the second appearing of Lord. This is the second appearing of the Lord. So Christ was offered to bear the sins of many like the first son of David. and unto them that look to him that shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation. It is when Solomon finishes the work that a Lord that the Lord appears to him the second time, the second appearing of the Lord. Beloved, we have not believed cunningly devised fables. You can't make this stuff up. The beauty of God is all through the scriptures, you guys.

It it it's a sad thing to me when people say, "Yeah, I don't see that. You know, we got it wrong." We're not following the Bible. Is this really the truth? Is it really? It's a sad thing because how can this storyline be in thousands of places in the scripture right there before our eyes? The problem is many of us are not looking. We're not feeding off of living mana. Now, beloved, believe it or not. Believe it or not, the sermon is about to begin. I'm not going to keep you much longer, but I'm just saying all of that was to build up to this.

So, everything you've heard before was really just to get to this point that you're about to hear now. I just had to lay out to you so that you could see. Yeah, true, true, true, true, true. So that when I share with you this part, hopefully it'll offer a piece to you that passes understanding. So here's the part. Here's the part. So let's go to First Kings chapter 10. So this is this is all chronological order, right? This is all chronological order. But here's what happened in First Kings chapter 10.

And when the Queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the Lord, she came to prove him with hard questions. So remember now this is first kings chapter 10. So let's go back. First Kings chapter 9, Solomon finishes the temple. You see that, right? So I'm not making up. First Kings chapter 9 is where Solomon finishes the temple is where the Lord appears again the second time. And then first Kings chapter 10, the Queen of Sheba, when she had heard of the fame concerning the name of the Lord, she came to prove him that is Solomon, the son of David, with hard questions.

And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train with camels that bear spices and very much gold and precious stones. If we're following the pattern, if we're following the pattern, we see the pattern in Revelation 21:4, verse 24. and the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it. And the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor to it. So remember, Sheba, the queen of Sheba, is now coming because she's heard of the fame of Solomon and she's got a lot of questions for Solomon.

She does. When she came when she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart. And Solomon told told her all her questions, there was not anything hid from the king which he told her not. And when the Queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon's wisdom, and the house that he had built, and the meat of his table, and the sitting of his servants, are y'all who are y'all following this, y'all? when she saw the glory of his kingdom with her own eyes and the attendance of his ministers and their apparel and his cupbearers and his ascent by which he went up to the house of the Lord.

There was no more spirit in her. And she said to the king, "It was a true report that I heard in my own land of thy acts and of thy wisdom. How be it I believe not the words until I came and mine eyes had seen it. And behold, the half was not told me. Thy wisdom and thy prosperity exceeded the thing which I heard, eye has not seen, nor has ear heard, nor has entered into the hearts of men the things which God has prepared for them that love him. And listen to me, y'all. Listen to me. When we go to see Jesus, we're going to commune with him.

all the things of our hearts, all the questions, the hard questions. Lord, why did this have to happen this I why did I have to lose my age? Lord, he's 51. He followed the health I know the promises. I know it, Lord. But help me to understand because it doesn't make sense to questions, when you have those hard questions, Lord, why did I lose my son? Why did I lose my daughter? Why did this happen the way that it happened? There's coming that time where we get to ask the son of David and he will tell us and our minds will be blown.

We will we will truly see that eye has not seen nor has entered into the hearts of men the things that God has prepared for them. Yes, Robert, better is one day with the Lord in your courts than thousands elsewhere. You can rest assured that those who who accepted the work of the son of David, those who accepted the work of the son of David in justification and those who accept the work of the son of David in in in in sanctification will go on to be able to ask the son of David all their hard questions.

What a what an assuring promise that is going to be. That is. So when I was little, when I was little, five years old, my father and mother left me and my brother in Jamaica. And I want you to note how I said that. Okay. Um they left us in Jamaica. We were left there for about six months. And during that time I I was too I didn't understand I didn't understand that they were coming to America to make a better place to bring us to have to have a better life. I didn't understand that that they were making sacrifices for me.

I just thought that they left us. So, five months later when we are arriving in America for the first time and my little brother Shawn, we see our parents in the airport. My little brother Shawn runs to my mom and I run to my dad and I'm running to my dad and there's one thing on my mind and I guess I was stewing about this the whole plane ride there. When I when I saw my dad, I ran to him. He's smiling. He's just like so excited to see me. And he scoops me up in his arm. I jump and he catches and scoops me up in his arm.

And I take my fist and I punch my dad right in the chest. And my first words to him were, "Why did you leave me?" I may as well have said, "Why had you Why did you forsake me? And my father just held me. He wasn't mad at the punch. But he knew something. He knew that I was too little. Listen to me what I'm saying, you guys. He knew that I was too little to understand. He knew that I was too little to understand why we had to leave. He knew that I was too little to understand all the all the intricacies.

My mind could not fathom. All I thought was he forsook me. My parents forsook me. Nothing could have been further from truth. There are many of us walking around today thinking, "God, why did you forsake me? Why did you leave me? We're mad. were angry. Lord, why did you leave me? Why? Why was I allowed to suffer the things that I suffered? And I want you to understand something. We are too young to understand. Did you all hear what I said? We are too young to You're like, "But pastor, I'm I'm 75."

Yeah, that's nothing compared to eternity. We are too young to understand. But the time is coming when we will understand. Where we will get to see the son of David face to face and ask him all of our hard questions. All of our hard questions. And when we see the king in glory, when we see with our own eyes, let me finish reading first kings chapter chapter 10 verse 8 and n. Happy are thy men. Happy are thy are these thy servants which stand continually before thee and hear thy wisdom. Blessed be the Lord thy God which delightth in thee to set thee on the throne of Israel.

Because the Lord loved Israel forever. Therefore made he king to do justice, to do judgment and justice. Listen to me. The Queen of Sheba's plea, the Queen of Sheba's words, her reaction to seeing the Son of David is a parallel to the joy we will experience when we see the Son of David. When we get all of our hard questions answered, when we see the king in all his glory, we will say the half was not told us. If it is your desire to see the king with your own eyes and all his glory in kingdom, now I'm going to ask you to put that one in the chat as we close out in prayer.

I pray that this message would have encouraged you today. Not only encouraged you to go to go deeper into the word of God. not only encouraged you to allow the son of David to build this house for God, not only has it encouraged you to accept the justification which he offers us, the sanctification which he offers us, but but that it will encourage you to hold on because all your hard questions, the ones that we do not have answers for here on this earth, will be answered and we will get to Today that half has not been told about the glory that awaits us in that kingdom.

Heavenly Father, thank you for speaking to us. Thank you for showing us the beauty of your word. Thank you for showing us that the scriptures are truly centered on Jesus. And above all, Lord, thank you for letting us know that we will not have to sit always with these hard questions. They will be answered. Lord, only allow us the opportunity to enter into your kingdom to see that glory and to ask those questions. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for your amazing grace and your amazing love toward us. Bless us and draw us as our prayer in Jesus name.

May we not fight the spirit of jaw, the spirit of God, but may we embrace it that we may be saved at last is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. May God bless you. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you.

Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.