Amen. Amen. Greetings and welcome to Living Mana's power line, your connection to the throne. No matter what's going on, no matter where you are, no matter who you are or what you're going through, log in, tune in, let us pray for you, let us stand in the gap because that's what God has called us to do. Greetings and welcome to Living Man of Power. Amen. So, let me try and turn this down. We got some stuff going. Okay, we're working out some kinks here tonight. Okay, I know, Gigi. I'm laughing, too.

Yeah, laugh about these echoes we have. But listen, we're we're here tonight to pray. No matter what's going on, we we won't forget that again. So, uh anyway, I'm Brother Terry, as you all know. This is my lovely bride Amra and we're manning the power line uh ministry endeavor by Living Mana online church and we're thankful to God to be here tonight to pray for you. We're going to be for the next half hour taking live prayer request. So want to invite you to log in and join us. Uh hit that like button, subscribe, hit the notification, share the link with somebody you know, and don't forget put your prayer requests in the chat.

We're going to be praying for you live tonight. And so what I want to ask my lovely bride to do is to start us off with an opening prayer. And after that, we're going to get right into taking your prayer request. Yes. Lord Jesus, I just want to thank you for this evening. Thank you, Lord, for this opportunity to just pray over anyone who needs prayer for their loved ones, for themselves. Um, no prayer is too small or too big for you, Lord. So, we just look forward to interceding for anyone in need.

And um we just lift this uh time together up to you that it be a blessed uh experience. In Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. So, we're going to start off tonight with uh a prayer request from Sister Sharon Faith Johnson who who wrote in and uh uh she said she spoke with her attorney and is her attorney's office and found um that uh Progressive Insurance does not want to settle the claim for a terrible terrible car accident she had in January 9, 2024 and one of the injured drivers and by one of the injured drivers.

She says she's requesting prayer for this matter as well as a fair settlement. And so we want to thank you, Sister Sharon. We see you tonight, Sister Sharon, there in that chat. We're praying for you and that the Lord will settle. We see you there. And so, Father, we just want to thank you as we continue to uh offer up prayer tonight. Lord, we're standing in the gap for everyone that's calling in. This is the power line and we want to thank you for the opportunity to intercede for your people. Lord, you are the God that executes righteousness and judgment for all who are oppressed.

So, thank you for standing in the gap for Sister Sharon. Also, we have a prayer request uh from Sister Gigi who's requesting prayer for Sister Jennifer Booth who's in the ER with a um diabetic ketosis and she's being transferred to the ICU. She had to put her dog to sleep last week. So, it's been really rough. And so, Lord, we want to thank you. We have been praying for Sister Jennifer. Lord, we thank you that you're on the case. We thank you that you're working in and through her life. Lord, continue to bless her.

Continue, Lord, to be there for her, Lord, in Jesus name. and God, Sister Jennifer, Lord God, who has been a servant for you. Uh we also want to remember uh brother Derek Burgess. He says, "Please keep us in uh uh pray for our son PJ. He was homeschooled and very active in the church until he went away to university and changed. Stopped communicating with the entire family eight years ago. And his parents only communication via email when he is in need. And so they they're asking prayer for him that uh he's been somewhat disrespectful and file and vengeful and bitter and a little bit accusatory.

And so they they're asking for prayer uh uh that we would uh continue to to lift him up. Um they haven't actually seen him in eight years. And so we we want to continue to lift uh uh this beautiful family up Lord in Jesus name. Lord your word says train up a child in the way that he should go and when he uh is old he will not depart from it Lord God. and from the time of childhood to getting old, there are some lessons to be learned. We pray that you will intervene, Lord, in this family's life. Give them hope, Lord, and give them uh security and faith to trust in you and in your word.

Lord, strengthen them to continue to stand on your word and believe in you no matter what they see, no matter what they hear. Give them a heart of love to continue to love through the rough times and through the hard times in Jesus name. God breathe with brother PJ in a special way. bless his life and touch his life in Jesus name. And God, sister Pat Patton Mon add to that prayer. Lord, I just lift up PJ's mental health to you. He was also diagnosed with delusional disorder and schizophrenia and he is refusing to accept that diagnosis.

And so, Lord, we pray that you just remove any scales from his eyes, that he will know that he needs a mental health professional to help guide him, Lord, and that he um will be in a healthy, mentally healthy, stable place very soon. Amen. Amen. Amen. And North has put a live prayer request in the chat and she says, "Pre, please pray that my family will accept Jesus." Amen. And father, we want to thank you for Sister North who is uh standing in the gap to intercede for her family. Your word says that you set the solitary in families and you bring out those who are bound in chains, Lord.

And so we thank you. You also said in your word, Lord, believe in the Lord Jesus and you shall be saved. You and your whole household. You didn't only say that to the Philippian jailer, but you're saying that to all of us who will trust you and stand in the gap for our families and for our loved ones, Lord. And so we pray and lift her family up before you tonight, believing in you by faith. God, we thank you. This is not a coincidence that she's here tonight praying for her family on the power line.

Lord, we thank you that you've given us direct access to the throne of grace in order that we might obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And so we just bless you and lift you up and praise you in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. And Lord, I'm going to continue to pray uh for Pat Mree, who is praying for strength for uh Jakara and healing for her mom, Yolanda, who is in um the hospital due to a pneumonia and she has a blood clot in her lungs. And so we're going to continue to lift her up with that.

Uh we also want to continue to pray for her grandmother, Paty, who is battling an aggressive cancer. and um she still can't find her son who's been uh missing for five weeks. And so now and and and now her daughter Yolanda. And so Lord, we lift up this precious family. Lord, we lift up healing for cancer. Lord God, we also pray, Lord, that you would bring reconciliation and healing. Help them to find loved ones that are are missing. God, we know, Lord, that you know everything, Lord. You sit high and look low.

Your word says your eyes run to and fro throughout the whole earth and showing yourself perfect in behalf of those whose hearts are perfect toward you. And so Lord, tonight we thank you God that your ear is attentive. We thank you for the opportunity to pray for these precious loved ones Lord God in Jesus glorious name. And thank you for this opportunity tonight, Lord God, to man the power line, to be able to stand in the gap, for all those who are viewing, for all those who would write in, Lord, for all those who would share the link with others, Lord God, that they might find hope and find answers to prayer in Jesus name.

Amen. Amen. Joanne is asking for prayer for the guy I met on the street who was just discharged from the hospital and has no cash nor means of feeding his family and was distraught. Pray. pray the Lord provides and give him a job and hope. Amen. Amen. Lord, I just want to pray for this man. God, I just pray that you bless him in a special way. I pray that you give him the health care and the financial um blessing that he needs, Lord. I pray that you comfort his mind and his spirit, God, and that you provide him with a job, that you provide him with hope, and that he can um know that he can trust in you in all things.

Amen. Sister Ramona Baddy is reminding us to pray for everyone who's having to deal with the tornadoes and the devastation in the south. And Lord, we thank you, God, uh that you will be a hedge about your people. want to thank you for this precious sister, Lord God, being mindful of others who are going through struggles and trials and that you will stand with them tonight in a special way and also stand with our sister Ramona who is our family and our loved one, Lord God. And we thank you for her.

We thank you for her heart of service. We thank you for her love, Lord. And thank you for your grace in her life in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. All right, Wendy Allen, please pray for me. I have been sick for 10 days. Wendy, we just lift you up in prayer right now. We pray that the Lord bless your body and your healing. We thank you that you shared your prayer request with us, Lord. And we just pray for God, the almighty healer, um to intercede on your behalf in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. trying to go through as our sister Nicole is asking that we would pray uh for her friend Julie who is in need uh of a breakthrough in health and her finances.

Uh she needs a special touch from the Lord. And so we do want to re uh remember our beloved sister Nicole who is a dear member of Living Mana. And we we thank you, Nicole, for tuning in tonight and for sharing this prayer request for your friend, Julie, who's in need of a breakthrough in her health and in her finances. Uh and and so, Father, we know that you uh uh are always touched with the feelings of our infirmities. Thank you, God, that the apostle said, "But my God shall supply all of your needs according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus."

And Father, we know that you're able. uh you we see Julie, Lord God, and you know her need in this hour. Lord, we don't believe in coincidences. Lord, we believe, Lord God, that you're allowing your people, your members, your church, your body to be your hands and feet. And so, Lord, thank you for touching the heart of uh Nicole and putting Nicole in just the right place at the right time to see the need for Julie and to type this prayer request on the power line tonight. Lord, we want to thank you in advance and give you all of the glory, all of the honor, and all of the praise for you are still a miracle working God.

And Lord, want to thank you for this power line while we're praying right now. Want to thank you for our our production team and Sister Gigi and those working behind the scenes to bring us live tonight, Lord God, for the first time, Lord. And we already seeing this was supposed to be a brief test run, but we're already seeing God. Hallelujah. That the your people are already filling up these chats. And I pray, Lord, for those who will like and those who will share the link and for those who will reach out, Lord, I want to thank you for our pastor, for the vision of his heart, Lord.

What an amazing gift and a vessel, Lord. And so, Lord, just bring folk in, Lord, and help us to be prepared. I want to pray for the the prayer warriors who will be manning this power line, Lord God. on different prayer warriors who will be here teams and will be working together and be make giving themselves unto you Lord God for those who will be fasting and praying and believing for breakthrough that we will have anointing and power and discernment in our lives to make a difference for those we pray for we give you the glory honor and praise in Jesus name.

Amen. Amen. We have a prayer request for Atante our first lady. Yes. Please pray. I have an important meeting tomorrow. Would you like to pray for her? Amen. Amen. Father, we thank you for our first lady. We thank you, Lord God, for I mean, just beautiful inside and out, Lord God. Gifted and talented, Lord God. And we thank you. We are honored to be able to serve her and to pray for her, Lord God. She has an important me important meeting tomorrow, Lord. We want to thank you that you have gone before her to prepare her way.

Thank you for the angels that you have encamped about her. Lord, thank you for your incredible giftedness in her life as a wife, as a mother, Lord, as a spiritual mother to all of us, oh God. And we thank you, God, over and over for uh such a beautiful uh uh vessel unto you, Lord, in Jesus glorious name. Amen. Amen. Next, we have a prayer request from H. Hello, brethren. My name is Edwin. Hello, Edwin. Things are tough. Sales haven't been coming through. My brother is currently looking for work.

Amen. Amen. Should I pray or would you like to pray? Go ahead. We're switching it off and we are a team and so we thank God for well, you know, we thank God for the tandem team that we have and some of the tandem teams you'll be seeing. We look forward to the night when uh even pastor and first lady come on and man the power line. And you already know they're a power team. But brother Edwin, listen. Our God is an amazing God. And tonight, he's brought you here to Living Manners Power Line to bless your life.

Don't forget to come back and tell us how God has answered your prayers. And so, Lord, we lift everyone up before you. And we just thank you for him, Lord God. Lord, we know that you own the cattle on a thousand hill. Lord, there are promises in your word, Lord, for every situation that we will ever face in life. Your word said, "According as your divine power has given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who hath called us to glory and virtue, that by these exceeding precious promises, hallelujah, we might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust."

Lord, we pray in Jesus name that Edwin's eyes would be open to see and to know, God, that you have provided for him. The spirit of prophecy says you have a thousand ways to provide for us that we know not of. And so Lord, we pray that he would just bump into his blessing as he holds on to you and continues to trust in you, Lord God. In Jesus name, work miracles in Edwin's life, Lord God, that he will know the God of heaven still hears and answers prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Ramona Batty is asking for prayer um for all those who are dealing with tornado devastation.

Amen. That one already came up. We prayed for that one. Okay. And there's a prayer for our beloved sister Majesa has one there. It says, "Plea, please pray for a mother refugee with two children that have been sent away u from the refugee camp and denied asylum and are now on the streets. Lord have mercy." Oh, there was. Would you pray for that, please? Sorry. There was one that she posted ahead of that. I was I'll get that one if you'll pray for this one. Okay. Lord Jesus, I just pray for this mother and there and uh two children who have been sent away from the refugee camp and denied asylum and housing.

Lord, um Jesus, I just pray that you that you intercede, that you intervene, give them shelter, give them food, give them resources, give them everything that they need to be able to take care of themselves. I pray that you soften the heart for those who are in charge of this um refugee camp. Lord, let her in. Let her children in. And I just pray that you provide her with a care and that somehow she knows that it is coming from you in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. So, Majesca's other one, please pray for a sister from Sudan that appeared at church today that is homeless and has nowhere to go that you may open ways for her and provide for her.

Keep her safe tonight and bless her. Amen. You want to take that one? Yes, Father, we want to thank you, God, for hearing the our prayers for this sister from Sudan who appeared in church. And and and we thank you, Lord God. You you we know that you are a father to the fatherless, Lord God. You're a shelter to those who are homeless, Lord. You are friend that stickketh closer than a brother. And we want to thank you for hearing our prayers tonight for this precious soul. Lord God, heal her, save her, touch her, and deliver her.

Keep her safe tonight. Encamp your angels about her. Oh God, we trust in you and we plead the blood of Jesus upon her, around her tonight, Lord God, between her and any harm. We give you glory, honor, and praise for hearing and answering, Lord. Amen. Amen. From Gina Brower, please pray our new dog Jesse will be comfortable in our home and know we are for her. Also to stop head tremors she sometimes has. Well, first off, Gina, congratulations on your new puppy son. Amen. We love our dogs here. So, let me pray.

Amen. Lord Jesus, I just want to praise you, God, for um this new pet, this new family member that Gina and Ross can enjoy in their home. We pray that um Jesse will just acclimate and be comfortable and feel at home. Lord, I know it takes a little while for dogs to adjust and know that this is their permanent home. And so I pray that comes sooner than later that this dog will trust them, that the dog will know that that they are provided for, that they will have a soft landing for their head and food in their belly and lots of love and cuddles and comfort.

And we just thank you for Gina and Ross for taking this dog in in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. Amen. Sharon Reed is here and she's saying, "Pray for my cousin had they had a stroke last year and just got going through uh many mental changes and physical changes and also uh uh help us Jesus please." And so, Sister Sharon Reed, thank you so much uh for allowing us to to stand in the gap and share in your struggle here on the power line. Lord, we want to thank you, God. Lord, thank you so much. This is not just a program called the power line.

We are the lifeline. You have given us God a charge. You've given us a call on our lives and you have Lord been mindful of us Lord. Who are we God? That you would be mindful of us and allow us to be partakers of this incredible gift. Lord, we pray in Jesus' name that Sister Sharon would know that she is loved and that she is cherished and that those loved ones who are going through strange uh changes and going through mental challenges would know, Lord God. May she be a link between you and them.

May she be the bridge, Lord, to show them love and show them compassion, Lord God. God. And I pray you bring Sister Sharon right back here, Lord God, to Living Mana to testify of just how good you've been. How you've heard and answered prayers and how you've turned it all around. Lord, we've seen you turn it around in our lives. And we know you're no respector of persons. You will do it for us. You will do it for her. And so we give you the glory, honor, and praise tonight in Jesus name. Amen. Amen.

Amen. Let me grab the next one. Oh, for the regulars in church in uh from Living Mana, don't forget that Power Wednesday started at 4 well about 20 minutes ago if um you need to go and come back. Um next up we have Barbara. Please pray for Megan who is in the bondage of addiction. Lord, we know this too well, unfortunately. And we just we pray that you break the chain of addiction in um Megan's life, Lord. I pray that she um will be able to fill that void in her heart that she is filling up with um substances, God.

Amen. Um, I just pray God that you fill her with the Holy Spirit so much that she can't handle all the love that she's experiencing from you. I pray that she gets guidance and um help, Lord. Um, that she will go into an addiction program with sponsors and people that will help her through this journey. That she has a community around her that will help her through her addiction, Lord. And you know, you have to come to the point where you are ready for help. And so I pray, Lord, that you impress on her um that she will be ready, Lord.

And I just lift that up in prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. From Jodie Mccclure, please pray that pastor and are safe and for me because I'm getting attacked again. You want to take them? Amen. Amen. Father, we want to thank you for our beloved sister Jodie. Lord, and um Lord, I just pray that you grant her uh an awesome revelation, Lord, that she would see this struggle, this challenge from your perspective. Not one of us who is a child of God is under attack. We're over attack because you said that we've been raised up to sit together in heavenly places far above all principality and power and might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in in in in he in the earth, but also in heaven.

And so we thank you, Lord, that Jesus, Lord God, would be manifested to Jod in a special way in the midst of this trial and that she would see that she's fighting from a position of victory. Lord, give her peace, give her faith, and give her strength and protect and keep her in Jesus name we pray. Amen. Amen. Lisa Clark, hi So and prayer team. Hello. Good to see you. Praising God for giving my niece a promotion this week after a challenging time at work. Please pray for the Lord's support for her in this new role.

Lord Jesus, I just want to lift up Lisa's niece. God, I praise you, Lord, for this new position. I praise you, Lord, that she has um the resource to be able to work. Um and we just thank you for that, God. I pray that you give her confidence in her new role. I pray that you open her mind to be able to retain all the new information that she's learning and needs to pick up. God, I pray that her um employers will see her value. Lord, that they um will feel good about selecting her for that role and that she will excel and exceed in that.

Lord, we pray and thank you for her and um your goodness for putting her in that position in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Um, just a moment here. I want to want to we want to make a a brief announcement as we continue to pray. Uh, tonight's broadcast was actually just sort of a test run. All right? And not kind of like a rehearsal, but I assure you there's nothing about the prayer request you're putting in that chat, the struggles and the child trials that you're going through. That's a rehearsal.

God's showing up and God is showing out and doing what he does in and through your lives. And so, uh, it's for real. These prayers are for real. Our faith is real. We're calling on God for real tonight. But we want to ask you, would you pray for us? Pray for the broadcast. Continue to pray for the souls that will come in. Uh, we can see already from just this little bit of time we spent. Uh, you know, we're going to be [Music] uh we're going to be shaping up and getting it together and figuring out the ins and outs.

We're in a learning curve right now. We are. We are. But and we also want to we also want to ask you to keep in prayer. Uh again, our warriors will be manning the the the power line just like you're seeing us do. And we love them. Uh and they're they're are an awesome bunch. They're the reason why we have the confidence and the faith to do what we do, you know, apart from Jesus. But and also listen, I can't say it enough. Sister Gigi is behind the scene and I'm telling you right now, she's helped us to pull it together just in the nick of time.

you you let me tell you it it's amazing and I want to thank uh pastor and attante uh uh it's this for just being obedient to the vision that the Lord has given saints we're believing that the power line is going to be one of the means that God's just continues to bring in more and more souls into the kingdom of God uh by way of living mana and so uh thank you for allowing us to be a part of you your lives thank you for allowing us to pray for you as you pray for us and listen Let's build meaningful relationships.

Share the link, like, subscribe, get the word out. Hey, share the mana. Let everybody know. Living man is going to be praying, taking live prayer requests. And uh we don't know how long we gonna go on, but uh glory to God. Sister Sharon Fay, we see you there in the chat. We also pans up. Well, we also want to remind you that if for some reason we do not um mention your prayer request live, we have our prayer warriors in the chat collecting them and rest assured they will be prayed for throughout the week.

And so your prayers are covered uh no matter what. Yeah. And and uh Sister Donna Elise, we're not going to forget your prayer request tonight. I'll see it in the chat. There will be times, I'm going to tell you where we're probably going to be bombarded. There's no way we'll get them all live. But I will assure you that the living man of prayer warriors, they're going to be manning that chat. Also, we have Power Wednesday going on simultaneously because we know that uh we're going to be reaching some other people to just go and fill up Power Wednesday.

Yes. Let me read Donna's prayer request and then you can pray for her. Yes, ma'am. Please pray for my son to call me and for me to gain a blessing from fasting from media for 10 days to please find a place in the country that fits my needs and my nephew who was beaten up. Amen. Sister Donna, praise God. We're going to pray for you now. And you know, I was that son that needed to call home and and God brought me home and and had me call my mom. Uh so he will call you and we want to trust God to hear and answer your prayer.

pray. We also want to pray for the the young man who was beaten up. And Father, we thank you, Lord, in the name of Jesus. Lord, you're able to turn tragedy into triumph, Lord God. Trials into victories, Lord God. Messes into messages, Lord. You're These are not just cliches and colorful cute little things to say. You're in the business of turning lives around. You're in the business of saving lives. Lord God, I am a wi living witness tonight that you you do save from the guttermost to the uttermost, Lord.

And I want to thank you for that, for reaching down. And Lord, as no respector of persons, you did it for me. I know you will do it for these young men. Lord, may that mother who's waiting by that phone to hear a call from her son, Lord God, who she loves, Lord. Nothing like a mother's love. And Lord, hear her prayers, answer her prayers tonight. we join our faith with her, Lord, that he would call his mother, Lord God, and and affirm his love and speak with her and con converse with her, Lord, in Jesus name.

You're the God of reconciliation and so reconcile in that family. Heal hurts, Lord God. Men wounds, Lord, we pray this in Jesus mighty and majestic name. Amen. Majesca is saying, "Please thank God for providing and opening ways for me and helping me out for my situation, my travels, and bringing bringing me back home safely." Amen. Did Did we remember Lisa's niece who got the promotion? Her name is Raina. Raina got a promotion. So, we're praising God, too. And my sister's name is Raina spelled differently, but yes, it is.

I love that Listen, this just went too fast. It did. You want to read my t-shirt? You know, a tante does a t-shirt message and I thought, you know, let me wear a t-shirt with a message today in honor of you, Atante. I'm not stealing your thunder. But what does it say? I survived too many storms to be bothered by raindrops. Right. I like the message. That's an awesome message. which reminds us those storms that we've gone through have prepared us for what we're going through right now. And want to remind you saints here as we get ready to bring this program to a close.

But we'll be right back with you on the power line uh uh uh uh next time, Lord willing. And I want to remind you of something. Listen, you've come through a whole lot. And remember the God who brought you through those past trials and those past storms. Don't let these little raindrops that you're feeling right now in your life. And some of you, we don't take your struggles or trials lightly. That's why we're here praying and standing in the gap. But God is faithful. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever.

Amen. And he he healed before, he can do it again. He raised the dead before, he can do it again. He opened blind eyes. He can do it again. He healed the sick. He can do it again. He caused the lame to run and leap. He can do it again. He He fed thousands in the wilderness. He can do it again. And he will do it. And so keep your faith up, saints. can join us again next time right there on the power line. Donna, Donna's upset. Let me go through and thoroughly pray for you, Donna. Hold on. Did I miss something in that prayer request?

Oh, we lift Donna up uh this evening, Lord, again, and we want to make sure that she gets all of her prayer requests prayed over, Lord. So, we first want to lift up her son to get in contact with her, to call her, to We don't know what's going on with their relationship, Lord, but you are um someone who mends fences. So, I just pray, Lord, that her son will call her. I also pray for a special blessing, Lord, from fasting, for social media for 10 days. God, we know that sometimes that can be challenging as enticing as social media can be, but we pray Lord that she can spend that time that she would be on social media um just spending time with you Lord fellowshipping with you and um bringing her prayer requests to you and your praises to you as well.

Amen. We also f we also pray Lord that she find a place in the country that fits her needs. Um we lift that up. I think that is what Terry prayed for. Um that you just open a home that is suitable for her and that brings her peace and uh contentment, Lord. And I also um we also lift up her nephew who was recently beaten up. Um we don't know what the circumstances was for that either, but Lord, if he was hurt, we pray for healing over his body. um if he's um just mentally hurt, we pray that you do a healing in his mind and his spirit.

Um I pray that any situation that is a tough one um will bring people closer to you. So I just pray God that Donna and her nephew and her son will will uh just draw closer to you Lord in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Let let me say, Sister Donna, I like you. You know what? And and you have permission. Anytime Brother Terry mess up like that, come. Uhuh. Uhuh. Brother Terry, where is the rest of my prayer request? I like that. That's importunity. That's right. Come on, saints. Help. We got to help one another out, you know, and that's why I have her, you know, cuz I just chopped all through there.

And see, Donna is taking her prayer request serious. She's not going to let me just pick through there and pick out what she wants me to be specific and to the point. And thank you, sister, because the Lord is very, very concerned about your prayer request and he's going to answer it specifically. So, thank you all for that. No worries. Let's finish and I am sorry. I am sorry. So, please forgive me for making that mistake. We have two more prayer requests in the chat. We're going to cover that and then we are going to say good night for the evening.

Majeska has one more prayer request tonight. Please pray for the conversion of my sister and her family, my mom, my relatives, Dyron, Mela, and friends. Amen. Amen. Which which one is it? It's right here. It's uh please pray for the friends. Amen. And I just saw an interesting note in the chat. It says, "Sniper prayers." Sniper prayers are detailed, focused, and pinpointed prayers. And so, Brother Terry ought to know better than that, having been trained to be a sniper prayer warrior, right? We will do better, saints.

And so, Majesca has asked us, Father, to pray for the conversion of her sister, her family, her mom, her relatives, Daren, Mela, and friends. And so, Lord, we thank you that Lord, you have heard this prayer request in detail. And we thank you, God, that even before the foundation of the world, you have made provision to answer it specifically as asked. You know these precious ones by name. And thank you that their names are written in the palm of your hands. Thank you, oh Lord God, for this opportunity tonight to lift them up before you and to believe, Lord God, for you to intervene in their lives in a special way.

Bring salvation to them, Lord. Bring hope, bring that conversion, Lord God, that you al you alone can do and accomplish in their lives in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. And Seb Grace, this is our last prayer for the evening. Thank you so much for being here with us. Seb Grace asks for prayer for Samantha. She needs to eat and it's hurting bad. I just seen y'all were on. Please pray. She's 95 pounds. You want to finish the last prayer? Amen. Lord, we want to lift up Sam Samantha before you, Lord. Lord, we know that uh she needs to eat to live and she needs to gain that weight, Lord God.

Uh, Father, we pray tonight that you would intervene, Lord, and bring soothing and comfort to her soul, Lord God. Uh, health to her flesh and marrow to her bones, Lord. Lord, we speak your word over her tonight, Lord. We speak the words of faith and the words of life over Samantha, Lord. Samantha, Lord, Lord, we know you know her by name. We know you have known her before the foundation of the world, Lord. Your word says you will bring health and cure, and so do it in Jesus name, God. We thank you that you are the Lord, our healer.

We thank you that you are the Lord who hears and answers prayers when we stand in faith, trusting in you, Lord. And so we just lift her up right now, God, in Jesus name, in a special way. Thank you, God, for hearing and answering this prayer in Jesus name. Well, we will be back next week, same time, same place. We hope that you join us again for the power line. Amen. Your connection to the throne no matter what's going on. God bless you, saints. Amen. Good night, everyone.