family. Uh we are getting ready to get into the word of God this morning. And if you're ready and if you're excited, please put up one in the chat because uh I will let you know right now the message that is going to be preached today uh is highly significant and highly relevant especially to end time events. And so today's message is entitled the day of the Lord. And um we're going to see exactly what this day of the Lord is and not only what it is, but why it is. And so with that said, we're going to have a word of prayer.

I'm going to get right into the message. Let's do that now. Heavenly Father, bless us Lord as we open your word. I pray Lord in a very special way that you would give your people understanding. Lord, please speak through your servant today. Is my prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Beloved, the first thing that I want to share with you as we go to the screen for the message entitled the day of the Lord is that there are three distinct days of the Lord in the Bible. Three distinct day of the Lords in the Bible.

Notice with me Isaiah 13:6. The Bible says, "How ye, for the day of the Lord is at hand. It shall come as a destruction from the Almighty. Now, this is the prophet Isaiah speaking. And the question is, what is Isaiah referring to as he's speaking to his own people, Israel, and warning them of this day of the Lord to come, this destruction from the Almighty? And the answer is is in its context. Isaiah is referring to the destruction of Jerusalem by Babylon. He is using prophetic language to describe this destruction that that uh Jerusalem will experience because of their rejection of the Lord.

And so what you'll find is that in the Old Testament, uh there are prophets that are what we call pre-exilic meaning these prophets wrote before the destruction of Jerusalem by Babylon. And they were all warning of the same event. They were warning Israel to repent, to return from their wicked ways. uh uh otherwise this day of the Lord would come upon them. And that day of the Lord was the destruction of Jerusalem by Babylon. And so you'll notice with me the book of Lamentations, chapter 2, 21 and 22.

The Bible says here, "The young and the old lie on the ground in the streets. My virgins and my young men are fallen by the sword. Thou hast slain them in the day of thine anger. Thou has killed and not pied. Thou hast called as in the solemn day my terrors round about so that in the day of the Lord's anger none escaped nor remained. Those that I have swallowed and brought up hath mine enemy consumed. Again we find here this is in reference to the same day of the Lord. We find it again in Ezekiel 7 19.

They shall cast their silver in the streets and their gold shall be removed. Their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. They shall not satisfy their souls, neither fill their bowels because it is the stumbling block of their iniquity. Ezekiel was warning of the same thing. We find it again in Ezekiel 13:5. It says here, "You have not gone up into the gaps, neither made up the hedge for the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the Lord."

We find it again in Zephaniah 1 7 and 8. Hold thy peace at the presence of the Lord God, for the day of the Lord is at hand. For the Lord has prepared a sacrifice. He has bid his guests. And it shall come to pass in the day of the Lord's sacrifice that I will punish the princes and the king's children and all such are clothed with strange apparel. We'll look at one more verse in this context. Zephaniah 1 verse 14 and 15. The great day of the Lord is near. It is near and hasteth greatly. Even the voice of the day of the Lord.

The mighty man shall cry there bitterly. That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of wastess and desolation, a day of darkness and glooiness, a day of clouds and thick darkness. And so what I want you to understand here is that we everything we have laid out so far was in reference to the first day of the Lord. This is referring to the children of Israel or Jerusalem being destroyed by Babylon. Now, we're we're laying the foundation here for something absolutely mind-blowing.

So, so put a one in the chat if you're following so far. The simple point we have made thus far is that the prophets who wrote before the destruction of Jerusalem by Babylon referred to that destruction as the day of the Lord. Now I said there were three days of the Lord in the Bible. We're going to now go to the second day of the Lord. Now, this second day of the Lord, you're going to find prominent in the prophets who came after the destruction of Jerusalem by Babylon. In other words, after Jerusalem was set free from Babylon and they went back to Jerusalem, the Jews went back to Jerusalem, rebuilt their city and their temple.

Now, you had a new set of prophets rising, warning of another day of the Lord. So notice with notice with me Joel chapter 1 verse1 15 alas for the day alas for the day for the day of the Lord is at hand and as a destruction from the Almighty shall it come. What day of the Lord is Joel talking about here? Joel chapter 2 verse one and two. Blow ye the trumpet in Zion and sound an alarm in my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord cometh, for it is nigh at hand.

A day of darkness and glooiness, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains. Joel here is referring to another day of the Lord. And this one has to be future of the one that happened when Babylon destroyed Jerusalem. This is another day of the Lord that the children of Israel are being warned about. Again, we find this in Joel 2:31. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the great and terrible day of the Lord. We find it in Joel 3:14.

Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. And then we find it in Malachi 4:es 1 and 5. This is the last book of the Old Testament. And here's what it says. For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yay, all that do wickedly shall be stubble, as the day that cometh shall burn them up, say the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. And notice verse five. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.

These prophets who lived after the are warning of a second day of the Lord to come. We find this as well in Zechariah chapter 14 verse1. For behold, the day of the Lord cometh and the spoil shall be divided in the midst of thee. So the question now is this. What is this second day of the Lord that these postexilic prophets are pointing to? How what are they warning the Jews? What kind of danger or destruction are they warning the Jews about? What are they saying is coming? Well, if you remember on the day of Pentecost when the Holy Spirit is poured out upon Peter and the disciples, you'll remember that Peter stood up to to preach.

And you'll remember he says something very, very interesting. In Acts chapter 2:14, listen to what the Bible says here. But Peter standing up with with the 11 lifted up his voice and said unto them, "Ye men of Judah and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, Be known unto you, and hearken to my words, for these are not drunken as you suppose, seeing that it is but the third hour of the day." Now watch this. But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel. So, this is the same prophet we just read.

The same prophet that was talking about or warning about this coming day of the Lord. Listen to what it says here. This is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel. And it shall come to pass in the last days, sayaith God. I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. Here Peter is using Joel to refer to the time that he is in that Peter is speaking as the last days. Now I know what you're thinking.

The last days? How could that be the last days when the world is still around today? What last days was Peter saying was upon Israel? Let's keep reading. Acts chapter 2:1 18. And on my servants, so he's still quoting Joel. And on my servants and on my handmmaids, I will pour out in those days of my spirit, and they shall prophesy. And I will show wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath, blood, and fire and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood before the great and notable day of the Lord come.

And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. And so to make this plain, the second day of the Lord that these postexelic prophets were speaking about was none other than the destruction of Jerusalem by Rome. This would have been the second day of the Lord. The prophets are using endtime language to point to the coming destruction of Jerusalem. In fact, let's go back to the book of Joel chapter 2 verse one and note what Peter is quoting in Joel 2 vers1.

It says, "Blow you the of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord cometh, for it is nigh at hand, a day of darkness and of glooiness, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morning spreads upon the mountains." Watch this now. A great people and a strong. There has not ever been the like. Neither shall be any more after it, even to the years of many generations. A fire devourth before them, and behind them a flame burneth. The land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolate wilderness.

Yay, nothing shall escape them. Joel here is equating the day of the Lord with this coming army that would destroy Jerusalem. Who was that army? It was the Roman army. This is the same verse that Peter quotes on the day of Pentecost saying, listen, repent and accept the Messiah because if you do not, an army is coming. He's quoting Joel. an army is coming that's going to destroy the this temple and city because of your rejection of the Messiah. And so, beloved, this is the second day of the Lord in the Bible.

I said there were three days of the Lord. Here is the third day of the Lord. Let's go to the book of First Thessalonians 5 2 and 3. The Bible says, "For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them as travail upon a woman uh with child, and they shall not escape." First Thessalonians is speaking literally about the second coming of Jesus Christ, which is in fact the third day of the Lord.

Y'all put a one in the chat if you're following. If this makes sense so far, there are three days of the Lord, the third being the actual destruction of the world. Again in first Thessalon 2 Thessalonians I'm sorry chapter 2 verse two the Bible says that you be not soon shaken in mind or be troubled neither by spirit nor by word nor by letter as from us as that the day of Christ is at hand. The day of the Lord is the day of Christ. It is the time of the second coming in second Peter chapter 3 10 through13.

But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heaven shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, and the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Nevertheless, we according to his promise look for new heavens, and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. And so to recap, the first day of the Lord, which the pre-exilic prophets were all referring to, were not events to take place at the end of time. Rather, they were events that marked the end of the days of Jerusalem by the Babylonian Empire.

After Jerusalem is destroyed, it is years later rebuilt. Israel has a second chance, but they begin to rebel against God again. And new prophets rise up warning of a second day of the Lord. That second day of the Lord was fulfilled in the Roman destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. But the Bible tells us there is a third and final day of the Lord in the which the heavens and the earth will will be destroyed. That is a global event. This is the second coming of Jesus Christ. Now with that in mind, with that in mind, what we want to ask now is a very simple question.

Why did the first day of the Lord come in the first place? That's the question. That's the basis of this message today. Why did the day of the Lord come in the first place? Now, to answer that question, it might seem like, oh, why are we going here? But I need to take you back to the book of Genesis. Back to the book of Genesis. And uh we're going to go we're going to go in fact, you know what? Before we go to the book of Genesis, let me just read just just several more verses to you. Revelation 6 and 17, notice what it says here.

uh the wicked at the end of time cry out to the mountains and rocks, saying, "Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that siteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the lamb, for the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand." So, so the question here is why the wrath of the lamb, why the wrath of the lamb? Let me share with you the book of Hebrews chapter 3:es 7-9. So in Hebrews chapter 3:es 7-9, God is Paul is speaking a and he's using the analogy of the children of Israel in the Old Testament as they were journeying to the promised land.

And I want you to notice what he says here. Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith, Today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers tempted me, and proved me, and saw my works 40 years. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do always heir in their heart, and they have not always known my ways. So I swear in my wrath they shall not enter into my rest. Now guys, pause for a second. There are two options here.

There is the wrath of God and there is the rest of God. Those who who who do not enter into the rest of God experience the wrath of God. So when we just read that verse where the wicked are crying out, "Hide us from the wrath of the lamb." It is because they did not enter into the rest of the lamb. If y'all with me so far, put a two in the chat, pastor. We get it. The wrath of God, the day of the Lord, which equates with the wrath of God, is reserved for those who entered not into rest. Okay? So, so with that in mind, now we want to answer the question, well, why was the first day of the Lord, the wrath of the Lord?

Why did that come about? Why did Jerusalem get destroyed by the Babylonian Empire? Why did God allow that? And to answer that question, we first need to go back to the book of Genesis. We're going to go to Genesis chapter 2. And I want you to note here with me, Genesis chapter 2, verse one. The Bible says here, "Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day, God ended his work which he had made. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it because at it he had rested from all his work which God created and made." This is the first time in the Bible we see God resting. And it is in connection with the seventh day. God has entered into rest. And this rest is because he created the world in six days. And he saw that everything was good. And so the Sabbath was a sign that man was was was submitted to the will of God. That man and the earth everything was good. Everything was good. So the Sabbath was God's sign of of God's work of God's finished and completed work.

Now we know that man sinned. And when man sinned, uh, death and sin and corruption came upon the earth. And as we read through the book of Genesis, even into the book of Exodus, we see that the children of that that uh, uh, the children of Israel end up in Egyptian captivity. And and then God is going to deliver them out of captivity. And then in Exodus 20, he gives them the Sabbath uh, uh, as a nation. So he first gave it in Genesis, but now he's repeating this commandment. He's he's he's letting the children of Israel who had been in captivity for 400 years, he's reminding them of the Sabbath.

And the text says in Exodus 20:8, "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work. Thou nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant, nor thy maidervant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth the sea and all that in them is and rested the seventh day. Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it.

And so we see here God reinstituting the Sabbath for his people. Even in ex in Deuteronomy 5:12 and 13, we're told, "Keep the Sabbath day to sanctify it as the Lord thy God has commanded thee. Sixth day shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of the Lord thy God." It goes on to say in verse 15, "And remember that thou was a servant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God brought thee out thence through a mighty hand by a stretched out arm. Therefore the Lord thy God commanded thee to keep the Sabbath day."

So here we find that God has commanded the children of Israel, "Keep my Sabbath for two reasons. Number one, it is a reminder of what I did at the beginning of creation. And number two, it is a reminder that I delivered you out of bondage. In the book of Leviticus, Moses now lays out some blessings and some curses for the children of Israel. If they obey, they're going to be blessed. But if they don't obey, they're going to be cursed. And I want you to notice what Leviticus chapter 26:1 says. It says, "You shall make no idols nor grave in image, neither rear up a standing image, neither shall ye set up any image of stone in your land to bow down unto it, for I am the Lord your God."

Verse two, you shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. I am the Lord. Now watch this. If you walk in my statutes and keep my commandments and do them, then will I give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. And then he goes on to list all these blessings, right? And now he's going to come to the curses. And I want you to notice what Moses says in the curses if you don't obey. In verse 33, it says, "I will scatter you among the heathen and will draw out a sword after you, and your land shall be desolate and your cities waste."

Watch this. Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths. As long as it lith desolate, and you be in your enemy's land, even then shall the land rest and enjoy her Sabbath. Let me ask you guys a question. According to Leviticus 26, Moses is prophesying of what would happen to the children of Israel if this if they disobey God. And the key reason that God gives for the children of Israel going into captivity and their land being desolate would be because they did not let they did not observe the Sabbath in their land.

Is everybody on the same page so far? In fact, note with me, notice with me 2 Chronicles 36 20 and 21. It says, "And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to Babylon, where they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah until the land had enjoyed her Sabbaths. For as long as she lay desolate, she kept Sabbath to fulfill three score and 10 years." Do y'all see this? The first day of the Lord, where Babylon destroyed Jerusalem, was specifically because the children of Israel refused to honor the Sabbath.

I'm not making this up. Let's go to Jeremiah 17 27. But if you will not hearken unto me to hallow the Sabbath day, and to and not to bear a burden, and enter in at the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath day, then will I kindle a fire in the gates thereof, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched. That's pretty straightforward, you guys. The reason Jerusalem was set on fire by Babylon was specifically because they had rejected the Sabbath. In fact, Jeremiah 66:1 19 here, O earth, behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words, nor to my law, but rejected it.

In fact, in fact, as if it couldn't be any more plain, I want we're going somewhere with this. So, please listen carefully. In the book of Ezekiel chapter 20, beginning with verse 12, the Bible says, in fact, you know what? Let's start with verse 6. Ezekiel says, "In that day that I lift up my hand," Ezekiel wrote this rather, I should say, "In the day that I lift up my hand unto them to lifted up my hand unto them to bring them forth of the land of Egypt, into a land that I had aspired for them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands."

Then said I unto them, "Cast ye away every man the abomination of his eyes, and defile not yourself with the idols of Egypt. I am the Lord your God." But they rebelled against me and would not hearken unto me. They did not every man cast away the abomination of their eyes. Neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I said, I will pour out my fury unto them to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt. Let's keep reading. But I brought for my name's sake that it should not be polluted before the heathen among whom they were in whose sight I made myself known unto them in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt.

Wherefore I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypt, and brought them into the wilderness, and I gave them my statutes, and showed them my judgments, which if a man do, he he shall live in them. Moreover, also I gave them my Sabbaths to be a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord that sanctified them. Watch this. But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They walked not in my statutes, and they despised my judgments, which if a man do, he shall live in them, and my Sabbaths they greatly polluted.

Then I said, I would pour my fury upon them in the wilderness to consume them. But I wrought for my name's sake, that it should not be polluted. Yet also I lifted up my hand in the wilderness that I would not that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them flowing with milk and honey which is the glory of all lands. It goes on beloved because they despise my judgments and walked not in my statutes but polluted my Sabbaths for their heart went after their idols. Neither mine I spared them from destroying them neither did I make an end of them in the wilderness.

Verse 20. But I said unto the children of children in the wilderness, walk not in the statutes of your father, neither observe their judgments, nor defile yourselves with their idols. I am the Lord your God. Walk in my statutes and keep my judgments and do them. And hallow my Sabbath, and they shall be a sign between me and you. Notwithstanding, the children of Israel rebelled against me. They walked not in my statutes, neither kept my judgments to do them. Which if a man do, he shall live in them.

They polluted my Sabbaths. You guys, how many times does he say it? The reason the children of Israel went into captivity is because they rejected, they polluted the Sabbath of the Lord. This is the reason for the first day of the Lord. In Isaiah 58 verse 1 and two, the Bible literally says, "Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show my people their transgression and the house of Jacob their sins." And he's going on telling them about their sins. And then he begins to tell them that the Sabbath which God had given them was not to be observed in any it was not to be forgotten and was not just a day for them to do whatever they wanted to.

But it says it was a day listen to this. Is not this the fast I have chosen to loose the bands of wickedness to undo the heavy burdens and to let the oppressed go free and that you break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry? And that thou bring the poor that are cast out into thy house? When thou seest the naked, that thou cover him? And when and you hide not yourself from your own flesh. And if you draw out your soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul, then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness shall be as the noon day.

If you turn away your foot from the Sabbath from doing your pleasure on my holy day, the entire chapter of Isaiah 58 is rebuking the children of Israel for not correctly observing the command that God had given them. And as a result, listen to me now everybody, the day of the Lord came upon Israel because they refused to observe the day of the Lord. Let me pause. Let me pause. The day of the Lord came upon Jerusalem because they refused the day of the In other words, the day of the Lord, a day of wrath, came upon Jerusalem because they rejected the day of the Lord, a day of rest.

They rejected the rest and therefore experienced the wrath. You got two options, beloved, is what I'm trying to tell you. The Israel had two options. They could either honor the day of the Lord, the day of rest, or face the day of the Lord, the day of wrath. And so now that we see that the first day of the Lord came about as a result of the children of Israel's rejection of the day of the Lord, the Sabbath. That sets the stage for our second question. Our second question is going to be, well, what reason, pray, tell, did the second day of the Lord happen?

I'm glad you asked. Let's find out. When we go to the book of Nehemiah, we find that Nehemiah who lives after the destruction of Jerusalem by Babylon. He is part of the rebuilding of Jerusalem. And Nehemiah is trying to make sure that the children of Israel do not make the same mistake they made before, ignoring the day of the Lord. That's what they did. They ignored it. Nehemiah 13:1 17- 18 says this. Then I contended with the nobles of Judah and said unto them, "What evil thing is this that you do and profane the Sabbath day?"

I'm going to my verse 18 isn't up here, so let me just read it in your hearing. Did not our fathers thus? And did not our God bring all this evil upon us and upon this city? Yet you bring more wrath upon Israel by profaining the Sabbath rest. Note how the wrath of God Nehemiah was warning. Listen, you remember why we went into Babylon in the first place. You remember why we experienced the wrath of God? It's because we rejected the rest of God. Are you about to do this again? And so Nehemiah is rebuking his own people.

And the Sabbath uh selling eventually stops. And so from Nehemiah, we're now moving forward. Remember, Nehemiah is post destruction of Babylon. So the prophets that come along with Nehemiah and afterward begin to warn of this second day of the Lord. Now why? What is Jerusalem doing or what have they done? They're obviously not obeying the word of God again. Which is why these prophets are coming on the scene warning of this day of the Lord. Now let's fast forward to just some years before 70 AD.

We're going to go 40 40some years before 70 AD to when Jesus the Messiah comes. In in excuse me in Daniel chapter 9 in verse 26 there is a prophecy given of the time of Jesus's coming. Daniel 9:26 it says this. And after three scorn and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off but not for himself. And the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. This is that second day of the Lord, y'all. And the end thereof shall be with a flood, and unto the end of the war, desolations are determined.

What is it that brought the wrath of God upon Jerusalem the second time? Let's find out. We're going to go to Mark chapter 3:1. In Mark 3:1, the Bible says, "And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there which had a withered hand, and they watched him whether he would heal him on the Sabbath day, that they might accuse him." Now, let me pause for a second here. As a result of the children of Israel's first day of the Lord, Babylon, right? the destruction of Jerusalem by Babylon because they rejected the Sabbath, because they forgot the Sabbath.

After the destruction of Babylon, and after their rebuilding of their city and temple, they began to go the exact opposite. They began to put rules upon the Sabbath that you can't find in the Bible. They began to become so stringent and so strict on the Sabbath that it is almost as though they produced another Sabbath that wasn't in the Bible. They had rules on the Sabbath and and and the way they treated the sab this Sabbath was so was so uh rigid that it was as it though as it were a totally different Sabbath.

to the point that by the time Jesus comes on the scene, they're watching Jesus to see if he will heal on the Sabbath to accuse him of breaking the Sabbath. You can't find thou shalt not heal on the Sabbath anywhere in the Bible. You can't find it. But they made that rule up. So, let's keep reading. It says, "And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, stand forth." And he saved unto them, "Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath days or to do evil, to save life or to kill?" But they held their peace.

And when they had when he had looked around about upon them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man, "Stretch forth thine hand." And he stretched it out. And his hand was restored whole as the other. And the Pharisees went forth, and straightway took counsel with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him. Now, here's what I need y'all to notice. This is Mark chapter 3. This is very early in the ministry of Jesus. In fact, it was this event that planted the seed for the Pharisees to kill Jesus.

This is the first time in the Bible that the leaders say Jesus must die. And beloved, that is significant because they put Jesus, the Lord of the Sabbath, to death in the name of the Sabbath. The reason they put Jesus to death was because they claimed that Jesus had broken the Sabbath. the event that led to their rejection of the Messiah was that he had broken their misunderstanding of the Sabbath. Go with me to John chapter 5 verse 1-3. After this there was a feast of the Jews and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.

Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep's market a pool which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda which h having five porches. In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk and blind and halt withered waiting for the moving of the waters. And and for an angel went down at a certain season in the pool and troubled the water. Whosoever then first, who whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in, was made whole of whatever disease he had. And a certain man was there which had an infirmity 30 and 8 years.

When Jesus saw him lie, so he couldn't walk, he knew that he had been long time in this case. He saith unto him, "Wil thou be made whole?" The impotent man answered him, "Sir, I have no man when the water is troubled to put me into the pool, but when I'm coming, another stepeth down before me." Jesus saith unto him, "Rise up, take up rise, take up your bed, and walk." And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked. And on the same day was the Sabbath. The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, "It is the Sabbath day.

It is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed." Again, no rule in the Bible, none. He answered them, and said, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed and walk. Then asked they him, What man is that is that which said unto thee, Take up thy bed and walk? And he and he that was healed wis not who it was. For Jesus had conveyed himself away a multitude being in that place. Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple and saith unto him, "Behold, thou art made whole. Sin no more, lest the worst thing come upon thee."

The man departed and told the Jews, it was Jesus which made him whole. Watch this. And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus and sought to slay him because he had done these things on the Sabbath day. Beloved, please understand this. The thing that set the Jewish nation in motion to kill Jesus was the Sabbath. It was the Sabbath. This is absolutely mind-blowing, beloved. Because as we look at that other example, at that other example, notice with me the book of Luke, I'm sorry, not the book of Luke, the book of John, chapter 9, verse 1 and 2.

And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, "Master, who did this sin, the man or his parents that he was born blind?" Jesus answered, "Neither has this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day. The night cometh when no man can work. As long as I'm in the world, I am the light of the world." And when he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and anointed the eyes of the blind man with clay, and said unto him, "Go wash in the pool of Sylum, which is by interpretation sent."

He went his way, therefore, and washed, and came seeing. The neighbors therefore, and they which before him had seen that he was blind, said, "Is not he this he that sat and begged?" Some said, "This is he." Others said, "He is like him." But he said, "I am he." Therefore said they unto him, "How were thine eyes opened?" He answered and said, "A man that is called Jesus, made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Silum, and wash, and I went and washed, and I received my sight.

Watch this." Then said they unto him, "Where is he?" He said, "I know not." They brought to the Pharisees him that a four time was blind. And it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. Then again the Pharisees also asked him how how he had received his sight. He said unto them, he put clay upon my eyes and washed and I do see. Therefore the Pharisees said of some of the Pharisees said, "This man of is not of God because he keepeth not the Sabbath day." All right, y'all.

They killed the Lord of the Sabbath, the creator of the Sabbath over a counterfeit version of the Sabbath. And as a result, think about this now. On that Friday evening that they kill Jesus, they walk away to keep the Sabbath. When in fact in killing Jesus, the Lord of the Sabbath, they had broken the Sabbath in the most egregious way. They wanted to put Jesus to death to spare their nation because Jesus was a Sabbath breaker. And yet in putting Jesus to death over the Sabbath, they had in essence broken the Sabbath which in essence brought about the second day of the Lord upon them.

Jerusalem was destroyed by Rome because Jerusalem rejected Jesus. Put him to death and then thought they were keeping the Sabbath. Put the Lord of the Sabbath to death. And in so doing, they had broken the very essence and spirit of the Sabbath. You see, let me break something down to you. Jesus healed a crippled man on the Sabbath, a man with a withered hand on the Sabbath, and a blind man on the Sabbath. And and I want you to note, beloved, all those healings represented something. In Ecclesiastes 9:10, the Bible says, "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might, for there is no work, nor device, nor wisdom, nor knowledge in the grave, whether thou goest."

It's as though the healing of the hand was to was to in essence show that Christ came to do a greater healing. Came to help us to see what the work of God is, how to do the work of God. He healed a crippled man. The Bible says in Psalms 119:105, "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path." It's as though in healing the crippled man, God Jesus was showing that he has come to make us able to walk in the path of righteousness. He healed a blind man. The Bible says, "Open thou mine eyes."

Psalm 119:18, "Open thy mine eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law." It's as though Jesus was trying to open the eyes of the blind so that they could see the light of the world. In fact, beloved, the very purpose of the Sabbath was to loose the bonds of wickedness, to let the captives go free. And the fact that they killed Jesus over his correct observation of the Sabbath shows that they in essence had rejected the Sabbath in a different way than they had done back under the first day of the Lord.

They had rejected the Sabbath by putting rules and regulations and being strict about rules and regulations God never applied to the Sabbath. So much so that they killed the Lord of the Sabbath. They had instituted a counterfeit Sabbath and enforced it with death. Y'all put a five in the chat if you're following so far because beloved, all of this sets up our third and final question, which is if the first day of the Lord came as a result of the children of Israel forgetting the Sabbath and the second day of the Lord came as a result of the children of Israel implementing a counterfeit Sabbath so strenuously and enforced that they put the Lord of the Sabbath to death over that counterfeit Sabbath.

The final question is what brings about the third day of the Lord? That's a fair question, isn't it? That would seem like a logical question. What is it that brings about the third and final day of the Lord? And beloved, may I suggest to you that if the first day of the Lord came as a result of day of the Lord came as a result of a counterfeit version of the Sabbath, then could it be possible that the third day of the Lord comes about as a combination of the two? Could it be that the third day of the Lord comes about as a result of one forgetting God's true Sabbath and two implementing a counterfeit one with the force of death behind it in the name of Jesus in the name of God.

Come with me to Revelation 14:12 where the Bible speaks about an end time people who have the patience of the saints. Here they the Bible says that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. We know that at the end of time according to Revelation chapter 14:12 that there will be a commandmentkeeping people of God. We know that the text says that might that have something to do with end time events. The Bible says in Revelation 12:1 17, the dragon was wroth and went to was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.

Could it be possible, beloved, that at the end of time that Satan will be out to try to destroy the people who are actually keeping the commandments of God, not forgetting it like ancient Israel and not altering it and coming up with new rules and regulations that God never commanded as happened in the in the time of Jesus. Could it be possible that the dragon is out to destroy those people to remove that witness of a people who actually do what God says to do, who actually remember what God says to remember?

In fact, in Revelation 14 6 and 7, the Bible says, "I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, fear God, and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come, and worship him that made heaven and earth and the sea and the fountains of waters." Beloved, please be aware that this is an end time message that goes to the entire world. And the last portion of that sentence is lifted directly out of the fourth commandment, which tells us that God is the one who created the heaven, the earth, and the sea, and all that in them is.

In other words, beloved, that angel that is flying in the midst of heaven with the everlasting gospel is coming with a message, a warning to avoid the same mistake that ancient Israel made before the first day of the Lord and before the second day of the Lord, that there is coming a third day of the Lord. And those who refuse the rest of the Lord will face the wrath of the Lord. This is absolutely crucial to understand. Beloved, in Revelation 7:1, the Bible says, "After these things, I saw four angels standing on the four corner of the of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree.

And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God, or the sign of the living God." Remember, we read back in Ezekiel that the Sabbath was the sign between God and his people. Beloved, you can't make this up. That which brought about the first day of the Lord and the second day of the Lord will also bring about the third day of the Lord. And it is interesting beloved that that as the first day of the Lord occurred in connection with Babylon and the second day of the Lord occurred in connection with Rome at the end of time we have a power a power called mystery Babylon that is symbolic of Rome in a spiritual context.

Revelation 17:5 says upon and upon her forehead was a name written mystery Babylon the great the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth. In the Bible, a woman when used symbolically, particularly in the book of Revelation, is likened unto a church. So here, beloved, in Revelation chapter 17, what we have is a church being described as Babylon, but is also Roman in nature. If we were to go back to the book of Daniel 7:25, this same power is described as a little horn. The Bible says, "He shall speak great words against the most high and shall wear out or persecute the saints of the most high and think to change times and laws, and they shall be given into his hand until a time, times, and half a time."

Beloved, there is one power that came out of Rome and that the Bible identifies as mystery Babylon. This is a power, a church that has both forgotten God's Sabbath day and also implemented a counterfeit version of it and said, "Do this. Remember this." of whom the Bible says the time is coming where they will enforce this counterfeit by decree. And just as Jesus was put to death because he refused to observe a counterfeit Sabbath. That is the reason Jesus died. He refused to observe a counterfeit Sabbath.

In the same way, this power described in Daniel 7:25 will do the same. Here's a little bit of history for you. Two simple quotes. The first one is from Priest Brady reported in the Elizabeth Elizabeth, New Jersey news on March 18th, 1903. And here's what he says. It is well to remind the Presbyterians, Baptists, Methodists, and all other Christians that the Bible does not support them anywhere in their observance of Sunday. Sunday is an institution of the Roman Catholic Church, and those who observe the day observe a commandment of the Catholic Church.

How about this one? Our Sunday visitor, February 5th, 1950. Protestants accept Sunday rather than Saturday as the day for public worship after the Catholic Church, not Jesus, after the Catholic Church made the change. But the Protestant mind does not seem to realize that in observing Sunday, they are accepting the authority of the spokesman for the church, the pope. Beloved, I want you to understand that the Christian world today, not only Catholic but Protestants as well, have by and large not only embraced the error that brought about the first day of the Lord, forgetting God's true Sabbath, but they've embraced the error that brought about the second day of the Lord, embracing a counterfeit Sabbath that God never spoke and the time is coming where that counterfeit Sabbath will be enforced.

In fact, look in the Christian world today and you will see talk of bringing of of enforcing Sunday worship or legalizing Sunday worship. You see it happening now in this movement to bring the ten commandments to schools all over America because one of those commandments, the fourth, has been forgotten first day of the Lord and replaced with a counterfeit second day of the Lord. And God is looking for a people who at the end of time will choose to obey God rather than man. Now come on. I got to show you one more thing and then we're going to wrap this message up.

Remember back in Hebrews how we read there, let us therefore fear lest the promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. For unto us was the gospel preached as well as unto them. But the word preached did not profit them not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. For we which believe do enter into that rest, as he said, as I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.

Beloved, I want you to understand that just as those who on the first day of the Lord experienced the wrath of the Lord because they rejected the rest of the Lord, that is the Sabbath, they were they experienced the day of the Lord Lord. So in the second day of the Lord, they experienced the wrath of the Lord Lord. They experienced the day of the Lord because they refused to rightly honor the day of the Lord. So at the end of time, beloved, those who experience the wrath of the day of the Lord, it is because they have rejected the the Hebrews says there remainth therefore a rest to the people of God.

That rest is in allowing Jesus to come into you and give you rest from the works of your flesh. Rest from lawlessness, rest from Sabbath breaking, rest from adultery, rest from murder, rest from lying, rest from killing, rest from covetousness, rest from having other gods. That's what the rest is about. And that rest does not negate the commandments of God. The devil was able to lead the to lead those under the first day of the Lord to say, "Ah, the Sabbath, we don't need to keep it." He was able to lead those under the second day of the Lord to say, "Hey, we're going to set up a counterfeit version of the Sabbath and be really, really stringent with that one."

Beloved, so he's seeking to deceive people today in two ways. The Sabbath, oh, that's done away with. That was for the Jews. And in the meantime, we're just going to create a new Sabbath. And maybe we'll call it the Sabbath, and maybe we won't. But it'll be something that we enforce stringently. Y'all know the rule. Y'all know the tradition. Let me show you before we close. You have to see this in Nehemiah chapter 13. The Bible says, "In those days I saw I in Judah some treading wine presses on the Sabbath and bringing in sheav and latting asses as also wine, grapes, and figs, all manner of burden which they brought into R into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day.

And I testified against them in the day which in wherein they sold victuals. There dwelt men of Ty also therein, which brought fish, and all manner of wear, and sold on the Sabbath unto the children of Israel, and in Jerusalem. Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said unto them, What evil things is this that you do, and profane the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers us? And did not our God bring all the evil upon us upon this city? Yet you bring more wrath upon Israel by profaining the Sabbath.

Watch this. And it came to pass that when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the Sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut and charged that they should not be opened till after the Sabbath. And some of my servants set I at the gates that there should no burden be brought on the Sabbath day. So the merchants and the settlers of all kind of wear lodged without Jerusalem once or twice. Then I testified against him and said unto them, why lodge you about the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you from that time forth came they no more on the Sabbath.

Why is this significant? Because beloved, the Bible tells us in Revelation 21 27 that there shall in no wise enter into the city anything that defileth, nor whatsoever workketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. Revelation 20 uh Revelation uh 18 tells us, "For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her. And the merchants of the earth," Pause for a second, y'all, the merchants were the ones who were outside of Jerusalem who did not come in because they did not honor the Sabbath.

In the very same way, beloved, at the end of time in that new Jerusalem, the gates are only open to those who obeyed the commandments of God. The merchants do not get to enter. Those who are more concerned with making a living than keeping. Those who are more concerned with with with with providing for themselves and doing their own thing. Those are the ones that don't enter into the city. Our closing text is this. Beloved, Revelation 22:14 and 15 says, "Blessed are they that do his commandments that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter in through the gates into the city.

For without are dogs and sorcerers and whoreongers and murderers and idoltors and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie." Beloved, my appeal to you today is very specific. Do not make the mistake that was made in the first day of the Lord. Do not make the mistake that was made in the second day of the Lord. Keep the commandments of God. Live by the testimony of Jesus. Accept the rest of God. Accept the day of the Lord. So that you do not have to fear the day of the Lord. Accept the rest of God. So you do not have to experience the wrath of God.

He has shown it to us again and again in scripture. Let us not be blind. Let us not be ignorant. Let us not be willful in disobedience to God. Let us keep his commandments as he has said, "If you love me, keep my commandments." And beloved, we will have right to the tree of life. If it's your desire to say, "Lord, yes, I want to keep your commandments. I don't want to make the mistake that was made under the first day of the Lord, and I don't want to make the same mistake that was made under the second day of the Lord.

I wanna I want to experience your rest so that I do not face your wrath. I don't want to face the wrath of God, but he invites me into the rest of God. If that's your desire, put a one in the chat as we pray. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for speaking to us today. Lord, thank you for showing us this pattern of the way you worked to redeem and to save your people. But how they continue to reject either by going by forgetting or becoming so uh uh caught up in a wrong form of worship that in both ways they ultimately rejected the Sabbath and its true meaning.

Please, Lord, help us to obey your commandments, to not be led to the right or to the left, but to obey your word as you have written it. Write your law upon our hearts and in our minds. And Lord, seal us so that we may be ready for you to come again. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. And amen. May God bless you as you continue to worship. May God bless you as you continue to study and make the word the supreme authority in your life. And may this message uh reach and touch your heart and put you and set you on a path closer to Jesus is my prayer in Jesus name.

Again, amen. God bless you. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. church. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.