[Music] Heat. Heat. Heat up here. Heat. [Applause] Amen. Amen. Amen. Happy Sabbath everyone. Welcome again to Living Mana Online Church. And uh I am uh so thankful that uh that opening was almost three minutes long. Why? because uh we were having some technical issues with my slides and uh just before it ended my slides started to work. So, praise God uh not only for the powerful trailer but also that the trailer was that long. All right, y'all. We are going to get into the word of God today. And this one is going to be a study that is going to be crucial um for a lot of Christians to understand.

There's a lot of talk going on right now about Israel and and what should be how should uh how should America and how should Christians especially um relate and respond to what's going on. And today I'm going to be talking about something that I think many people miss and I don't want to give it away at the beginning. So we're just going to pray. We're going to jump right into the message which is called the Israel America problem. You're going to want to share this message um with a lot of Christians.

You're going to want to share this message with a lot of Christians. So, um share this link now. Let people know that that this message has begun and um pay attention. Take notes and listen carefully. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, feed us today Lord is our prayer in Jesus name. Open our eyes that we may see. Amen. Amen. Let's go to the screen. The message is entitled the Israel America problem. I want to start off with a verse that is uh usually quoted by Americans es or by Christians especially here in America.

It is Psalm 122 and verse 6 which says pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. they shall prosper that love thee. And this verse has been taken by many Christians to um to mean that that as Americans and as Christians, we we ought to back uh Israel and support Israel. And uh and so we pray, Christians pray for the peace of Israel, for the success of Israel. and and uh we we want Christians often here, especially here in America, want to find themselves always supporting Israel, but this verse needs context.

We've heard a lot of talk about context in the last couple of weeks. This verse needs context, and that's what we're going to do. We're actually going to build a and show God's relationship with Israel. um beginning in the book of Genesis. So, we're going to go on a journey through the scriptures. Please take notes and I need you to listen. Absolutely. Listen very carefully. Let's go to the screen. We're going to begin with God's call to Abraham. It's found in Genesis 12:1. The Bible says, "Now the Lord had said unto Abram, get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee."

Verse 2 and three. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that cursseeth thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Let's read a little bit further. Genesis chapter 13, God now says this to Abraham. And the Lord said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him, lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art northward and southward, and eastward and westward.

For the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed forever. And I will make thy seed as a dust of the earth, so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be numbered. I want you to understand that here is the introduction of the story of Abraham in the Bible. God calls Abraham. God says, "I'm going to make you a great nation." He says, "I'm going to lead you into the promise into a land of promise and those that bless you, I will bless, and those that curse you, I will curse."

And again, this is this is one of the verses that is often used uh for Christians to to take the position that that we ought to pray and support Israel, right? A and in whatever way that means, whatever Israel does, we ought to be behind it. And so as this story goes on in the Bible, uh Abraham begins to have children. He has uh um he has uh um Isaac. Isaac has Jacob. Jacob has his 12 sons. And these 12 sons multiplied so that by the time we get to the book of Exodus chapter 1 verse 7 we'll read and the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly and multiplied and waxed exceeding mighty and the land was filled with them.

Now there arose a new king over Egypt which knew not Joseph. And he said unto his people, "Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. So you see how numerous they were. Come on now, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply. And it come to pass that when there fallth out any war, they join also unto our unto our enemies and fight against us, and so get them up out of the land. And the Lord So we'll pause right here. Let's come back for a moment. So you can see from Genesis 12 all the way up to Exodus chapter 1, we now have the children of Israel multiplied.

and and they're now in Egypt and Egypt is about to to to to persecute them and this is going to last for hundreds of years. At the end of this time period, this 400year time period, God calls a man on the scene by the name of Moses. And you will see God speaking to Moses in Exodus chapter 3:8 where he says, "I am come down now to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them out of that up out of that land onto a good land and a large a land flowing with milk and honey and unto the place of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Parizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites."

So God is now leading the children of Israel out of Egypt and he's going to lead them into the land that he promised to Abraham. If y'all are with me so far, put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat. Pastor, we're following you. We've seen the chronology. The children of Israel are now about to enter the promised land. And now we're going to see something that is absolutely crucial that many, many, many people miss. Let's go back to the screen. The children of Israel are about to enter the promised land.

But before they do that, God calls Joshua, who is the one that's going to lead them into the promised land, to do something. We read about this in Joshua 8:es 33 to35. says here, "And all Israel and their elders and officers and their judges stood on this side of the ark and on that side before the priests, the Levites, which bear the ark of the covenant, the Lord, a as well as a stranger, as he that was born among them, half of them over against Mount Gerism, and half of them over against Mount Ebal, as Moses, the servant of the Lord, had had commanded before, that they should bless the people of Israel.

And afterward he he read all the words of the law. The blessings and cursings. So I need you to put that in the chat for me. There were blessings and cursings according to all that is written in the book of the law. There was not a word of all that Moses commanded which Joshua read not before all the congregation of Israel with the women and the little ones and the strangers that were conversant among them. So what's happening here is that the children of Israel have now been broken up into two companies.

Six stand on this co this mountain called the mount of Jerisim which is where Joshua was going to speak blessings and then six tribes on Mount Ebal where Joshua was going to speak curses. So you've got these two mountains and this is before they take possession of the land. And let's see what this what these blessings and what these cursings were about. Let's go back to the screen and we're going to read in Deuteronomy 28:1. Here's what it says. And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments, which I command thee this day, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all the nations of the earth.

And all these blessings shall come upon thee, and overtake thee, if thou hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God. There is a key word in this verse. There is a key word in this verse. Does anyone know what the key word is? Let me go back one verse earlier. What is the key word here? And it shall come to pass if if if three times I'm saying the word just so that you understand the significance. It shall come to pass if so if Israel was obedient then all these blessings would overtake them. And so these blessings start from from Deuteronomy 28:2 and they go down to about verse 14.

Then we get to verse 15 and notice what it says here. But it shall come to pass, if thou will not hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe to do all his commandments, and his statutes, which I command thee this day, that all these curses shall come upon thee, and shall overtake thee. All right? So, what's happening here? God is setting out conditions. In other words, what God is saying is, listen you guys, what I'm about to tell you is conditional. Put that word in the chat for me, please.

Conditional. If A, then B. If C, then D. There are conditions. And then just to amplify this, notice what he says in Deuteronomy 30 19 and 20. I call heaven and earth to record this day against you that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore, choose life that thou mayest love the Lord thy God, and that thou mayest obey his voice. In other words, what God is saying here, a and what the Bible is telling us is God actually calls to witness the entire world, Israel, if you obey my voice, I will bless you.

But if you do not obey my voice, you're going to be cursed. This is the Bible speaking. Not man, not me, not you. This is God himself speaking. Now, I want you to notice what part of the curse was in Leviticus 26:33 and and 34. He says this. This is this is the chapter the chap the curses are mentioned twice. Once in Deuteronomy 28, once in Leviticus 26. Here's what it says. I will scatter you among the heathen, and will draw out a sword after you, and your land shall be desolate, and your cities waste.

Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths. As long as life desolate, you shall be in your enemy's land. And even then, and or even then shall the land rest and enjoy her Sabbaths. So again, in Leviticus, God is telling the children of Israel, if you don't obey me, your land is going to end up desolate, and you're going to end up captives in another land. Everybody put a one in the chat if you are following so far. Put a one in the chat if you're following so far. Now, Leviticus 26, the same chapter, tells us something very interesting.

From verse 40, it says this almost like a clause in these curses. Right in the midst of the curses, it says this. If they shall confess their iniquities, there's a key word here, everybody. What is the key word in this verse? It is the word if. If they shall confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers with their trespass, which they have trespassed against me, that also they have walked contrary unto me, and that I have also walked contrary unto them, and have brought them into the land of their enemies.

If then their if if if if if then their uncircumcised hearts be humbled, and they then accept of the punishment of their iniquity, then will I remember my covenant with Jacob, and also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham, will I remember, and I will remember the land. In other words, I will deliver you out of the land. All right. So, let's come back for a moment and let's just recap that according to God, the promises were conditional. Everybody put a five in the chat if you see that thus far.

Clearly, the promises were conditional. Blessings if you if you obey. Curses if you don't obey. And even if you don't obey, but you repent back to back to a blessings again and I will bring you back into the land. So God was clearly showing them that their salvation was conditional. as a nation. Them being safe in the promised land, them having peace and joy and happiness, them existing without any issues adopted a once saved, always saved position. In other words, their position was look, God blessed us and so it doesn't matter what we do, God has to bless us.

Y'all, y'all put a eight in the chat. I want to make sure I'm using different numbers so that I know you're following the point that I'm making. There's a little bit of lag. So, when I'm saying put an eight, it's because I know you're responding to the point I just made. So, put an eight in the chat if you understand. Israel adopted this unconditional salvation. This this unconditional once- saved always saved attitude. Meaning, hey, God is blessing us. And it doesn't matter what we do. Doesn't matter how we live.

Doesn't matter how much we disobey God. Doesn't matter how how nasty our attitudes are. Doesn't matter how corrupt we live our lives. God has to bless us. A and the Bible even tells us, notice with me, Amos chapter 8 verse 9 verse Amos chapter 9:es 8-10. Behold, the eyes of the Lord God are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it off the face of the earth, saving, saving that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, say the Lord. All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, which say, "The evil shall not overtake nor prevent us."

In other words, listen to me you guys. Ancient Israel had this position that because they were the children of Abraham that God was bound to bless them. Once saved, always saved. Doesn't matter what you do. Once God has delivered you out of Egypt, then that's it. Once God has delivered you out of bondage, then there is nothing. You cannot do anything to lose your salvation. And if you can't do anything to lose your salvation, then really you could live how you want to live, do what you want to do, and God still has to bless you.

So needless to say, this doctrine was a false doctrine. This belief was a false belief because God clearly said if if if come with me to the screen. So notice what happened. 2 Chronicles chapter 36:15 and 16. And the Lord God of their fathers sent to them by his messengers rising up at times and sending because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling place. But they mocked the messengers of God and despised his words and misused misused his prophets until the wrath of the Lord arose against his people till there was no remedy.

Notice again with me Jeremiah 25:8-9. Therefore thus sayith the Lord of hosts because you have not heard my words because you have not heard my words. Behold, I will send and take all the families of the north, sayeth the Lord, and Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant, and will bring them against this land, and against the inhabitants thereof. Here is Jeremiah 25:11 and 12. And this whole land shall be a desolation and an astonishment. And these nations shall serve the king of Babylon 70 years.

And it shall come to pass when the 70 years are accomplished that I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, sayith the Lord, for their iniquity. Again, 2 Chronicles 36:21. God here is speaking about the Babylonian the the the Jerusalem going into or the Jews going into Babylonian captivity. He says to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah even until the land had enjoyed her Sabbaths. For as long as she lay desolate, she kept Sabbath to fulfill three score and 10 years. This is the time period, the 70 years that they spent in Babylon.

Again, 2 Chronicles 36:19-20. They burnt the house of God and break down the wall of Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed all the goodly vessels thereof. and them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to Babylon, where they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia. So, let's pause for a moment and let's just make sure we're all in the same place. So, remember now, Israel thought, hey, once saved, always saved. God's not going to let anything happened to us.

We can do whatever we want, live however we want, act however we want, and God has to bless us because we are his chosen people. But God said, I said if. I didn't say this was unconditional. I said if. And as a result of them ignoring the if, we might we might call this sermon ignoring the if. because they ignored the if and and went along with this idea of once saved, always saved, once saved. It doesn't matter what you do, God is going to bless you. So you could live how you want to live, talk how you want to talk, you know, act how you want to act.

It doesn't matter as long as you accept God with your mouth, then you are good to go. This is the philosophy that they had. And so they end up in Babylonian captivity. If you're with me so far, put a nine in the chat. Nine in the chat. Pastor, we're following. We're with you so far. They end up saying they end up in Babylonian captivity because they ignored the if they thought once saved, always saved. Now, it is here in the book of Daniel or here in Babylon that we're introduced to a prophet named Daniel.

And and this prophet Daniel in Daniel chapter nine, he's literally confessing the sins of Israel almost verbatim quoting that they that the curses that were spoken of in Moses have been poured out upon them and this is why they're in Babylonian captivity. So he's confessing the sins of Israel, confess confessing the sins of the fathers. And there are probably others doing this as well. And as a result of this confession, an angel comes to Daniel to give him a prophecy. Now, here is the prophecy.

It is called the 70 week prophecy. And we find it in Daniel chapter 9 and verse 24. This prophecy has been so largely misunderstood by so many Christians that it is this key prophecy that has the Christian world basically in confusion over Israel. So let's read this angel comes to Daniel while he's praying and the angel says this to Daniel. Daniel, 70 weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring an everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and the prophecy, and to anoint the most holy.

Know therefore, and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore, and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the prince, shall be seven weeks, and three scoring, two weeks. That's another way of saying 69 weeks. Seven 70 weeks. Of the 70 weeks, the 69 weeks would bring you to the Messiah. That's what the verse is saying. So, let's pause for a second and we need to break something down here. So this 70we prophecy, the text just said that 69 of those weeks will bring you to the Messiah.

Now, why is this important? The children of Israel are in are in Babylon because they have rejected God's word. They have rejected the if the conditional promises of God. They thought once saved, always saved and now here they are in Babylon. So are they lost? Is this it? Has God turned his back on his people? No. No, no, no, no. He brings them this 70w week And the 70we prophecy points to the coming of the Messiah, which is the one whom Israel must accept in order to receive the full forgiveness of God, mercy of God, salvation of God.

Y'all put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat if you understand the point that I just shared, especially if you've never heard this before. you're you're you're a Baptist, maybe you're a Pentecostal, and maybe you've never understood this prophecy. And if you're one of those, I'm going to ask you to put a two in the chat. If you're like, Pat, I'm getting this, sir. I don't know who you are, but hey, I'm getting this. This is making sense. God is saying, "Listen, 69 weeks from the beginning of this prophecy, and we're not going to get into when that prophecy began right now because that's not the purpose of this study, but 69 prophetic weeks will bring you to the Messiah, the one who is coming to die for your sins, the one that is coming to give you forgiveness."

Watch this. If you accept him, if if if everybody if you accept him, plan A, Mount Jerisim, the blessings. If you reject him, Mount Ebal, the curses. Do you all understand? Now, why is this 70we prophecy so significant? Let me tell you why. Let's let Jesus break it down for us. We're going to go over, by the way, 70 weeks. How many days in a week? Seven days. So 70 weeks would be 70* 7. Does that number ring a bell? Anybody? Does the number se does the phrase 70* 7 ring a bell? If it doesn't, let's find out why it should ring a bell.

If it does, you might be like, "Where have I heard that before?" Let's go to Jesus's own words. Matthew chapter 18 verse 21 and 22. Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him till seven times? Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until 70 times seven. You guys, the number the phrase 70* 7 is symbolic of God's mercy. 70* 7. That's that's the that's what that's what's happening in this 490ear prophecy. This 70we prophecy, it's the same time period.

70 * 7 69 weeks brings you down to the very one who is going to offer you forgiveness and the remaining 70th week. The 70th week is your opportunity to respond to the forgiveness given to you. Now, that 70th week, beloved, we're going to see focuses around Jesus. But hold on. Before we get there, we need to finish seeing what Jesus says right after Jesus says 70* 7, forgive 70* 7. Notice what he says. Let's go back to the screen. So, watch this, y'all. That's verse 22. Here comes verse 23. Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king which would take account of his servants.

And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him 10,000 talents. But for as much as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold and his wife and his children, and all that he had, and a payment to be made. The servant therefore fell down and worshiped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion and the and loosed him and forgave him the debt. Let me ask you something everyone. What was Jesus coming to do?

Jesus was coming to forgive the debt of Israel. And how is he going to do that? but through his death, burial, and resurrection. And so in this parable that Jesus gives right after he says 70* 7 and then he says, "Hey, by the way, the kingdom of heaven is like this." It's like a man forgiving someone of their debt. Israel, you're in debt right now, aren't you? You're in Babylon. You've not followed my ways. You've not followed my my You've not followed my word. But don't worry Israel, I am coming to grant you forgiveness.

And so when Jesus dies on the cross, that is in in essence him forgiving the debt for anyone who wants it. So now watch this. The parallel continues. Let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen. So then it says, Let's come back from the screen for a moment. I I I'm saving this verse for last. So in the parable, we don't have it on the screen. It actually continues that the servant that was forgiven then goes out and finds someone that owes him money, Gentiles. the enemy, the Romans, those that are not Israelites, the wicked world.

Y'all get the picture. This man goes out and finds someone that owes him money. And instead of him offering what was offered to him at the cross, instead of him offering that love and that mercy and that forgiveness because he was grateful for the sacrifice made in his behalf, no, no, no, no. He has an attitude towards the Roman, towards the gentile, towards the gay, I mean towards the gentile, towards the heathen, towards the unbeliever, that is not forgiving, that is not merciful, that doesn't say Jesus to the non to the non to the non-believers.

And so when when the Lord hears this, now let's go to the screen. This guy evidently thinks that once he's been forgiven, he will always be forgiven. That's how the parable goes. Hey, the Lord forgave me the debt. I'm good to go. I can treat people Letause for a second, y'all. It It's time to preach. It's time to preach. I can treat people like dirt. God has already forgiven me. So it doesn't matter if I'm mean to you. It doesn't matter if I talk this way to you. It doesn't matter if if if I take privilege away.

It doesn't matter how I treat you. I can put you where I can do with you what I will. God has forgiven me. Oh, God is love. Certainly. I love the Lord and he loves me. He forgave me. But extend mercy to you. Be kind to you. Nah, you're the enemy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're a heathen. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're a you're a you're you're you're you're in this party or that party. No, no, no, no, no, no. You don't believe what the Bible says. Therefore, you are my enemy. Why should I extend love, mercy, patience, forbearance, understanding with you?

And and I'm pretty secure in the way that I'm treating you. Why? because God's already forgiven me. It was a tearful time. It was I I was filled with tears as I accepted the love and the grace and the mercy of God. It It was such a move. You should have been there at my baptism. It was a beautiful experience. And so in the parable, people oversee people see how this forgiven man note what I said y'all. Forgiven man is treating others and they go back and tell the Lord. And now watch what happens.

Let's go back to the screen. Matthew 18:34 and 35. And his Lord was wroth and delivered him to the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly father do also unto you if you if you from your hearts forgive not everyone his brother his brother his trespasses. You guys hold on. Let me I'm going to read to you Matthew 18:32. Just one two verses up. Then his lord, after he had called him, said unto him, "Oh, thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt because you desired of me, should not you have also had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on you?"

So Jesus is giving us a hint of what this 70w week prophecy is about. What he's saying to Israel is, "I am coming to offer you forgiveness at the end of these 69 weeks." Y'all get the picture? How you respond to my sacrifice, how you respond to what I did for you at the cross, we're going to see the prophecy actually says that will determine whether you retain my blessing or they are removed from you. All right? So, let's go back to the screen. Let's go back to the screen. And here's what I want you to see.

So, this prophecy we just read said 69 weeks will bring you to the Messiah. For the sake of time, I'm not going to talk about when this prophecy begins. I'm simply going to going to tell you the prophecy began in 457 BC. If you count 69 weeks or 483 years from the time that the decree went forth to restore and build Jerusalem, as we had just read a little bit earlier, you come down to the very year of Christ's baptism. Are y'all with me? You come down to the very year of Christ's baptism. Now, now, um, and here's, by the way, if you want my slides, you'll be able to get the slides, so don't worry about it.

Here it says this and after three score in two weeks shamas be cut off. Let me go back here. This means sometime in the 70th week, the final seven years, the Messiah would be cut off. Now, here's what this means, beloved. If the Messiah would be cut off halfway through that 70th year, that 70th week, then it must means that the 70 weeks occurred in the past when Jesus was alive. Y'all put a one in the chat if you understand what I'm saying. Notice what the text says. And after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself.

I get it, pastor. Jesus died, was cut off, but he didn't die for himself. He died for the world. That's the sacrifice. Three and a half years after Jesus's baptism, which is halfway through that 70th week, Jesus is cut off for us. Here's what the text goes on to say. and the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. And the end thereof shall be with a flood, and unto the end of the war desolations are determined. So, let's break this down. It's going to be a little tedious, but don't worry, we're going to juice it down and make it simple.

Who was the prince that was going to be coming at the same time that Jesus was crucified? We don't need to guess. Jesus himself said in John 12:31-33, "Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out." And then he goes on to say, "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me." This he said, signifying what death he should die. In fact, y'all, Jesus right before his death told his disciples, "The prince of this world cometh and has nothing in me."

So, we now know that Satan was that prince that was going to be coming. In other words, as it were, being cast, being locked out of heaven at the death of Christ, falling as it were, having no more access as it were because of the death of Jesus. That's why Jesus said, "The prince of this world cometh and has nothing in me. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out." Okay? So this is all happening at the cross. Now I want you to notice with me Daniel 9 27. This is going to be the most tedious part of this message.

And again, we're going to make it very simple, not complicated at all. But listen to what the text says. It now says, "And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week. And in the midst of the week, he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease. And for the overspreading of abominations, he shall make it desolate, even until the consummation, and that determined shall be poured out upon the desolate. Now, this verse, this one single verse has thrown millions of Christians off on a false trail.

Let me break it down for you. Who was it that was to confirm the covenant? It was Jesus. Jesus confirmed the covenant. That's what he did at the cross. Galatians 3:17. And this I say that the covenant that was confirmed before of God in Christ. The law which is 400 years and 430 years after cannot disenol that it should make the promises of non- effect. Listen, the covenant, Satan doesn't confirm a covenant anywhere in the Bible. Nowhere in the Bible do you find Satan confirming a covenant. It is always God.

It is always Jesus. And the new covenant was confirmed by Jesus. Jesus said in Matthew 26:28, "This is my blood of the new testament which is shed for many for the remission of sins." Remember, watch this. Let's go back. Let's go back. And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week. Let's go back. Jesus said, "This is my blood." The blood of the new testament or new covenant which is shed for many. For what? For the remission of sins. Let's keep going. The Bible says, "For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away should take away sins."

Meaning Christ's death brought an end to the sacrificial system. Are y'all with me? Christ's death put an end to the sacrificial system. That's what Daniel 9 is talking about when it says when it says that he would put an end to the sacrifices. This is all fulfilled in Christ back there at the cross. Now watch this you guys. In Jesus's days, the Jews had adopted again the once-s saved, always saved, blessings of God. We are Abraham's seed and it doesn't matter what we do, God is going to bless us.

And Jesus had to check them on that continually. For example, here is John speaking. Here is John speaking in Matthew 3:7-9. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said unto them, "Oh generation of vipers, who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth fruits meet for repentance, and think not to say within yourselves, we have Abraham to our father. For I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children to Abra." God can create children of Abraham.

Don't think that just because you are the bloodline of Abraham that that carries any significance at all with God. If you are not bringing forth fruit meet for repentance, do not deceive yourself. How about Jesus's own words? That was John. Here's Jesus. Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him. Now notice how it notice how it qualifies. Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, "If you continue in my word, then are you my disciples indeed." So not all the Jews were Jesus's disciples, only the ones that believed in his word, and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free."

They answered him, "We be Abraham's seed, and we were never in bondage to any h to any man. How sayest thou, you shall be made free?" So now these are the other Jews that are talking. Jesus says, "I know that you are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill me because my word has no place in you. I speak that which I have seen with my father, and you do that which you have seen with your father." Wow, how offensive, they think to themselves. They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. And now notice what Jesus says.

If you were Abraham's children. Wait, what? If? What do you mean if Jesus? I mean, that's a pretty like uh weird statement. What do you mean if? There's no if. We're all Abraham's children. They're saying, "What are you talking about?" But no, no, no. Jesus says, "If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham. But now you seek to kill me, a man which has told you the truth, which I have heard of God. This did not Abraham. You do the deeds of your father." Then they said to him, "We not we be not born of fornication.

We have one father, even God." Jesus says, "Why do you not understand my speech, even because you cannot hear my word? You are of your father, the devil, and the lust of your father you will do." Now, pause for a second, y'all. What is Jesus saying here? Jesus himself is saying it doesn't matter if you were born of If you reject the Messiah, You cannot claim Abraham and yet be seeking to kill me. This thing is conditional, y'all. Your salvation is conditional upon me. And so we know what happened, right?

Israel as a nation, not everyone, but as a nation, Israel rejects the Messiah. They crucify him. They reject his teachings. Not all because we find on the day of Pentecost, the Bible says there there appeared unto them clothed in tongues like as a fire which sat upon them and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost and began to speak with other tongues as the spirit gave them utterance. And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men out of every nation under heaven. So there are Jews that are now under the influence of accepting Christ and of receiving the spirit.

The early church was made up of Jews. Y'all put a five in the chat if you're following. So now I want you to see what we've just seen creates a distinction between spiritual Israel, those that have accepted Christ, those that have been born again. They're still literal Jews, but they are spiritual Israel. And God is saying, "Now there's another group of people who are literal Jews, but that's all they are. They are just lit. They're just Abraham's offspring, but they're not a part of the promise that only comes through accepting the seed.

And so Jesus could say stuff like this. Notice with me, Luke 13:34, "Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killth the prophets, and stoneth them that are sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not? Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. Let me go back, stay on the screen. Let me just run back here real quick to that Daniel chapter 9 where it says, let's read it again. and for the overspreading of abominations.

He that is Jesus shall make it desolate even until the consummation meaning even until the end of time when that determined shall be poured out upon the desolate. We're talking about the plagues. Jesus himself says as he's about to be crucified as he leaves Jerusalem for the last time says your house is left unto you desolate. You will not see me again until the second coming, the consummation, when that poured out upon the desolate will be poured out. Jesus was saying, "Nation of Israel, because as a nation you have rejected me, your house is left unto you desolate.

You've chosen Mount Ebal. You've rejected Jerism. You've rejected the blessings. You've rejected following me. You've rejected my offer of forgiveness. You're not willing to extend mercy, grace. You're not willing to extend what I've extended to you to the Romans, to the LGBTQ, I'm sorry, to the Romans, to the unbeliever. You're not willing to show them mercy. You're not willing to treat them the way I treated you. And so after the 70* 70 is complete, we know that Jerusalem gets destroyed. The temple gets destroyed.

And now it doesn't matter if Israel were to come back 20 years, 50 years, 80 years later and rebuild a temple and do all those things without accepting Jesus. The promise is null and void. Put a five in the chat if you're following me. Because the if was still this if my people repent and confess their sins. So they could have said, "Hey, we're not we're not we're still not going to accept Jesus, but you know what? We want to rebuild our temple. We want to rebuild our city." They could have done all that and still This is Eore.

You are now like any other nation on the planet, my people. In fact, let me let's let Jesus say it. Let's let Jesus say it. In Matthew 21:43, Jesus said this, "Therefore, I say unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken from you and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof. And whosoever shall fall on the stone shall be broken, but on whom it shall fall, it will grind him to powder." And when the chief priests and Pharisees had heard his parables, they perceived that he spake of them and they sought to lay it made them pretty angry, but they feared the multitude because they took him for a profit.

Let's see, does Paul bring this principle, highlight this principle? He sure does. Let's go over to Romans chapter 2 verse 29 to and to uh 31. Paul himself says this, "But he is a Jew." In fact, I need to start with verse 30, and I'll go into verse 31. Verse 30 says this, "For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly, neither is circumcision that of the heart, or that which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew, which is one inwardly. And circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God.

I get you, Kevin. I'm coming there. Please understand. extending mercy and grace to the drunkard, to the to the prostitute, to the homosexual. That God is not saying, "Hey, tell the drunkard and the and the prostitute, tell the people that are living this way that it's cool and it doesn't matter." That's not what that's not what mercy is. That's not what love is. It's simply treating those who don't understand, those who maybe even reject. Those who nailed Jesus to the cross, Jesus said, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they do.

It is extending love despite people seeing it differently than you. That's what Jesus has called the follower of himself of Christians of Christ to do. So come come. Jesus now says listen don't get locked up on the outward appearance. Oh, you're a blood descendant. No, no, no, no. That's not the Jew. the the the biblical the spiritual Israelite is the one that I'm concern is the one that is a follower of me. That's one that's me. That's what I'm looking at. Let's look at it again. Galatians 3 29.

And if you be Christ, then are you Abraham's seed jaw and hes according to the promise. How how what context do you need to understand that what Paul just said is that if you have accepted Christ that makes you a seed of Abraham and if you are a seed of Abraham that makes you an Israelite. No, not an Israelite after the flesh. you just become a Jamaican Israelite or a Hispanic Israelite because God is not concerned about literal bloodline. He's concerned about spiritual bloodline. Who has the blood of Jesus flowing through their veins?

That's the connection he's looking for. Hey, are you related to Jesus? Yeah, I was born again. You're Abraham's seed. That's why Abraham's seed is going to be a great multitude of all nations. Not of one nation, of all. In these shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And how do you get in Abraham? You have to get in Christ. If you're in Christ, then are you Abraham's seed and hes according to the promise. So then we can now begin to understand why Colossians 2:11 says, "In whom ye also you are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands in the putting off of the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ."

It's no longer literal circumcision that Gentiles had to do in order to become an Israelite in the Old Testament. No, now it's spiritual circumcision. Those who have received Jesus in the heart, you are now an Israelite. Now watch what Paul says you guys in Romans 9:6. He says, "Not as though the word of God has taken on effect, for they are not Israel which are of Israel." Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. They are not all Israel which are of Israel. In other words, what he's saying is you can actually be a physical Israelite, but that's not what counts with God.

What counts with God is if you're a spiritual Israelite. And only spiritual Israelites will be saved. In order to be saved, you must be an Israelite. The covenant is made only with Israel. So now we got a problem. Because if you're not Israel, you're not saved. Therefore, if everybody if if there are going to be people of every nation, kindred, tongue, and people that are saved, it means that Israel grew to encompass every nation, kindred, and tongue. Everyone, anyone who says, "Lord, I want you in my heart.

I accept you, and I'm going to live how you lived. I'm going to live out your principles in my life. You are Abraham's seed. This is how third angel, you get into Abraham's bosom. I love that. So then, so then now watch this you guys because I was going somewhere with this. Listen carefully. Let's go back to the opening text. When the text says, "Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They that prosper, they shall prosper that love thee." Christians today think God is talking about literal Jerusalem that was left desolate back in 70 AD.

They think, "Oh, so that means that whatever Israel does, we've got to support Israel." But beloved, you what you have to understand is that in the New Testament in Christ, these things become spiritual. In the book of Revelation, Babylon is not a literal place. It is a spiritual place representing all the wicked. And there are only two powers at the end of time. There is Babylon and there is Jerusalem. There is Babylon and there is Israel. If you're not in Israel, you're in Babylon. And you could live in Mexico and be in Babylon.

You could be in Australia and be in Babylon. You could be in in in Taiwan and be in Babylon. As well as you could live in America and be an Israelite. You could live in Africa and be an Israelite. You could live in Spain and be Listen y'all, spiritual things are spiritually discerned. So then this idea that that Israel is supposed to be supported leads to something very very dangerous. In fact, it leads to the same mistake Israel of the Old Testament made when they thought once saved, always saved.

When they thought it doesn't matter what we do, God has said he's going to bless us. No conditions. We We skip that part. It leads to something. And I need you to pay close attention, y'all. I need you to understand. So, Israel made that mistake. And now we're dealing with the church. And I'm going to tell you, beloved, that the church ends up making the same mistake as well. Watch this, y'all. So, around 320 something AD, around 320 something AD, just leave it. We're not going to go to the screen yet.

Um, there was a man that came on the scene by the name of Constantine. And Constantine uh became converted to Christianity. Now mind you, Christians had been be were being persecuted by the Roman armies, by the Roman Empire, and they suffered for hundreds of years. And when Constantine converted, most scholars agree that it was a nominal conversion, meaning it wasn't real. It it was it was for the purposes of political gain. And the church instead of following Christ's principle of Christianity is not about outward acceptance.

Hey, I accept Jesus and I can still kill people. I can still kill my family. Which is what Constantine did. They were like, "Oh, he says he's a Christian. Let's go. We're good to go. He's going to give us political power. He's going to exalt Christianity in the nation. Man, this is just what we wanted." And what happens is this is the forerunner of what became known as dark age Christianity where Christians were persecuting so-called Christians were persecuting others who didn't believe as they believed.

And watch this. It was because they had gotten into the same idea of righteousness by name. Hey, I'm a I'm a child of Abraham. God is blessing me. So it doesn't matter what I do. It doesn't matter that we're burning people at the stake. We are still Christians. It doesn't matter that we're burning people at the stake who who we find with a Bible in their possession. We're still Christians. And guess what? We can be Christians and do this. God once saved, always saved. We're good to go. And this is basically how you can describe the Christianity of the dark ages.

It was hypocrisy. It was history repeating itself. In the book Great Controversy, page 49, the author says, "The nominal conversion of Constantine in the early part of the 4th century caused great rejoicing, great rejoicing by Christians and the world clothed with a form of righteousness walked into the church like there was a great revival. People were like, "Yes, Constantine." And and thousands flocked into the churches and people celebrated it. But the author says, "Now the work of corruption rapidly progressed.

Paganism while appearing to be vanquished became the conqueror. Her spirit controlled the church. Her doctrines, ceremonies, and superstitions were incorporated into the faith into the faith and worship of the professed followers of Christ. Righteousness by name. All you had to do was confess Jesus with your mouth. And then it didn't matter. It didn't matter what you did. It didn't matter how you lived. As long as you accepted Christ, you were considered good to go. Now, we need to get down to our day, y'all.

So, so forgive me. And I know this message is I know there's a lot in this message, but we're about to get to the main. If you thought we hadn't gotten to the main point, we're about to get to the main point right now, you guys. We're about to get to the main point. So, in the 1830s, there was a man by the name of uh John Nelson Darby. And I'mma just read John Nelson Darby. um brought a a particular new teaching into Christianity. So Irish Plymouth Brethren uh founder John Nelson Darby revolutionized Protestant esquetology with his dispensational dispensational premillennial sharp sharply premillennialism sorry sharply dividing biblical history into seven distinct eras where God's dealing with humanity shift.

So there was for example law for Israel, grace for the church culminating in a secret pre-tribulation rapture and futuristic antichrist interpretation that sideline the papacy's historic role Daniel 7 as the little horn of Bible So, let's pause for a second and and just come back for a moment because what I want you to understand here is that it was this teaching that actually went back to the to the 70th week of Daniel chapter 9 that we read that was fulfilled in Jesus and said, "No, we're going to separate that 70th week from the 69 and put it into the future."

So that the teaching now said that in the future, the antichrist is going to go to Israel and make a covenant with them for seven years. In the midst of that seven years, he's going to cut off the covenant or stop the covenant, break the covenant, and and this is when the antichrist will be revealed. By the way, the church will be raptured away before any of this happens. And this points to that teaching of the rapture. Remember a couple of days ago how people thought the rapture well all of this is from that particular teaching.

So So I want you to notice something in in in this new teaching which now has been adopted by almost every major Christian movement in America. The 70th week is no longer no longer applied to Jesus in the past. Takes away the whole meaning of Jesus giving the whole meaning Jesus gave to that prophecy. Israel, your salvation as a nation is now dependent on how you accept or reject me. It brought in this teaching called the rapture or popularized it. And it taught that l Israel was literal and would be restored to the land.

And when this restoration of the land happened, that was a sign that God was on the move. No repentance needed, no accepting Jesus needed, just Israel is going to uh to be restored. And that is God in action. And it also taught that in this dis dispensation that the law of God was not necessary. That was for the Jews. And so when in 1948, the Jewish state was reinstated, Protestants in America was like, "Oh, this is it. We're disp we're dispensationalist all the way. This is evidence that that God is on the move."

That pro. But what happened beloved? What they did not do is take into consideration the Bible. Listen to this. Now this is from the Skullfield Bible which was written in 19 I believe it was 1911 or 1909 somewhere around there which was based on this principle which is where all the teaching spiraled like it just just like went rapid in America. And I want you to notice what what Scoffield's notes say based on this teaching. The Christian is not under the Mosaic covenant of works, the law, but under the unconditional new covenant of grace.

Y'all see that word there? And by the way, you don't need to keep the law of God. It this popularized this idea. It's not in my let let me just read it. This popularized this idea in Romans 10:9 that that where it says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shall believe in thine heart that God has raised from the dead, thou shalt be saved. So that for for millions of Christians, it just became, hey, all I got to do is confess Jesus with my mouth and then I'm good to go. It doesn't matter if I now hate my political enemy.

It doesn't matter if I hate the Marxists or it doesn't matter if I hate these people in the name of Jesus. I've already been forgiven. So, I can actually do what I want to do. Have a spirit of anger, of hatred. And by the way, by the way, this totally bypasses first John chapter 2:4, which says, "He that saith, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him." There's a balance there. You can't just say, "Hey, I accepted Jesus in my life 20 years ago or five years ago at a stadium.

I said, "I accept you, Jesus, and now I'm good to go. I don't have to keep his commandments. I don't No. The text says, "He who says I know him and does not live out the commandments is a liar and the truth is not in him." So, let me break it down for you. Now, we're about to pull this whole thing together. You see, when Christians look at Israel, modern day Israel, and see Israel doing things that ah may not I can't justify that righteously, but God said pray for Israel. What that does is this.

Hey, if Israel can do these things that may not be the best, may not look that good, may be like outright like, whoa, what is but God still accepts them because they're his people. Then that changes my picture of who God is. Now, God is a God who doesn't mind if you're blowing up children. I mean, if it happens, I mean, yeah, it's kind of bad, but we got to pray for God doesn't mind if Israel acts like any other nation. Corruption is in every nation. There's nothing different about Israel. Every nation is corrupt.

Every nation has corruption. But in the mind of the Christian, while God favors that nation, so it must be okay then to I if Israel can do these things and have God's unconditional protection and we also are to say blindly, yes, we love it's right, but hey, it doesn't matter. The Bible says pray for Israel and bless Israel no matter what they do. Then I'm just going to do it. And what this does, beloved, is it trains the Christian to then subtly make that shift that, hey, if Israel, the nation, can do these things and still be of God, then maybe I can hate my political enemies.

I can hate those who are against I can hate the secularists. I can I can I can demonize. Y'all catch what I'm saying? And so now in the in the in the Christian mind, there's no more contradiction of looking like a lamb but acting like a dragon. It's not a contradiction. It's okay. Look at Israel. So now you can have someone stand up in front of mil thousands millions of people and say, "Hey, I hate my enemies and I don't want to forgive them." And Christians be like, "That's I mean, you know, it's but God is for us."

We can have you can you can have open corruption and yet still say but this is Christian. You can have the spirit of anger and yet still say but yeah it's Jesus though. And and as long as we have Jesus our corruption and our anger and our vitrial and our we can be angry at the people and we can do all those things but we're accepted of God. And what begins to happen is you begin to get this concept of righteousness by name. As long as I say I'm a Christian and beloved, this is what is happening in Christianity today.

All because of this misunderstanding of God's relationship with Israel. You see, the Bible tells us this. It says, "Know this also that in the last days perilous time shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure, more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness." We're not talking about the unbeliever here. A lot of Christians vote the A lot of Christians take this verse and say this is the unbeliever.

No. The text says having a form of godliness, claiming to be Christians and yet having the same spirit of the world, having the same anger as the world, having the same vitrial as the world. Beloved, this righteousness by name, as long as I accepted Jesus with my mouth and said I believe him in my heart, that that makes me a Christian, is a doctrine of demons. It is not truth. So when Jesus says pray for Israel, listen y'all, go with me to the screen. The Bible says, "Husbands, love your wives even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it."

The church is is symbolically a woman. When the Bible says in Revelation 12:17, "The dragon was wroth with the woman." He's talking about the church, God's church, Christ church, Christ's bride. And notice how the church is described. The dragon was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed which do what? Have Abraham's blood? No. Which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus. That's the church, you guys. That is Israel today. And Israel today, beloved, is made up of Jews who are Jews of the flesh and Gentiles who are spiritual Israelites.

That's what the church is. That's what the church is made up of. And because so many Christians don't understand this, they're over here praying for a nation that is a secular nation. And that's okay. But now we begin to say, "Wait a minute. So these people, this nation doesn't accept Christ, but we're still going to treat them as if they accepted Christ." And God's blessing is upon them even though as a nation they're like, "No, no, Jesus." How does that work? And if that contradiction works, then you understand, okay, well then, hey, you know, I'm doing better.

I accept Jesus with my mouth, but it's all right. I still hate my enemies. And I and I take pleasure when I see others hating on my enemies. My side. Yes. Come on. Christian side. We got to defeat our enemies, which is the spirit of Satan, y'all. Revelation 13:11, the Bible says, "I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb and spake as a dragon." We're not going to talk about who this power is. I'm simply going to say that this is the perfect description of what it means to have the outward appearance of a lamb, of a Christian, but speak like a dragon.

Titus 1:6 says this, "They profess that they know God, but in their works they deny him, being abominable and disobedient, and unto every good work repbate." Y'all got to understand, beloved, God doesn't care about your profession. God doesn't care that you said with your mouth, "Oh, yeah, I accepted Christ." and still have hate for your enemy, still have hate for your brother in the church, still have hate. God does not care about that. We need to understand this very, very closely, y'all, because the world is pushing a Christianity that simply says once you accept Christ, that's all you need.

You're good to go. Listen, Jesus said these words in Matthew Matthew 15:9. This people drawth nigh unto me with their mouth and honorth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. Jesus doesn't care about what you say. He cares about what you do. Jesus doesn't care about your profession if your profession of Christ doesn't match with your works, with your actions, with your attitudes. Isaiah 29:13, "Wherefore the Lord saith, for as much as this people draw near with me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of men."

man is telling you, "Hey, as long as you are anti-abortion, it doesn't matter if you're killing people with your words, if you're killing people with your attitude, it doesn't matter if you hate. As long as you got the right positions, you're good to go. You're a follower of Jesus. Yes, you got the right position, check. Anti-abortion, check. Anti- anti-gay, check." as if the checklist of what you're anti makes you a follower of Jesus. But because we believe that God blesses people unconditionally, that there's no condition to salvation, then you can see in people's minds, it doesn't matter how you act.

You can act like the devil and at the same time be like, I'm a follow Jesus. That's why you could say demonic things, devilish things, and people still say, "Oh, yeah, but that's Christian." Yeah. You just got to understand what the devil means when he says that. And you have all kinds of people claiming Christianity who are saying all kinds of things designed to provoke design. What? You said what? You said what? And you could be like, "Yeah, yeah, what? What's the matter?" righteousness by name.

The Bible says in Ecclesiastes 12:13 and 14, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man, for for God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. God is not going to judge. Did you say I accept Jesus? That's not what he's judging. He's judging every secret work. And so if your secret work if your secret work does not match with what your words say more so your words can already condemn you.

So if your words are right but your actions are wrong then that's one thing. If your words are already wrong, that's already it. The battle for Jesus has never been over a nation. It has always been the battle of the heart. And this is the problem with modern day Christianity. We're fighting. Christians are fighting for the nation. This nation is not God's nation. God doesn't have a nation. God's nation is in heaven. That's his nation. and and and God said, "If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight."

This is not to say that we should want the best for this nation or any nation that we live in and do our part to help that nation be the best place it can be. But beloved, the battle is not for the nation. The battle, the promised land that God is looking for is not the nation. This is the promised land that God is fighting for. It's the promised land of the heart. Jeremiah 31:33, note with me on the screen, but this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. The covenant, beloved, is made only with the house of Israel.

Meaning, if you can't find a way to become part of the house of Israel, you're in trouble. And the only way to become the part part of the house of Israel is to be born again. And the only way that you could do that is through Jesus. Jesus is your doorway into the covenant. After those days, sayith the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts and write it in their hearts and will be their God, and they shall be my people. So, here's the hypocrisy, beloved. Here's the hypocrisy here. Here it is again in Hebrews 8:10.

For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, sayeth the Lord. I will put my laws in their mind and write them in their hearts and I will be to them a God and they shall be to me a people. The same Christians in this nation that are that are saying we don't need a law of God. We're not under the law. The law has been done away with. Turn around and say we demand the law of God in our schools. The Ten Commandments should be placed in our schools and in our governments and we should live by those commandments.

The nation should live by those commandments. But when someone says, "Hey, those laws need to be written on your heart." You're like, "No, on the heart, no, I'm not under the law." How can you at the same time be not under the law and then at the same time rejoice when the Ten Commandments are put in schools? If we're not under the law, why you want the Ten Commandments in our schools? See, that's legalism. That's legalism. Legalism is looking for legal ways to implement your belief on others. We're going to use the law government to enforce our view of Christianity.

We're even going to use the law NSPM7 if you haven't heard of it, which now says anyone who speaks against Christianity can now be investigated for a crime. So if you're not speaking my language of Christianity, you can get in trouble with the law. And one day, beloved, the things that you've heard today will be considered hate speech against the modern-day popular version of Christianity, which is a righteousness by name Christianity only. So, as long as I'm singing and I'm crying and I say Jesus and I have the right checkpoints, but I I but I can still talk like a dragon and I can still hate my enemies.

Yeah, y'all don't know. Look it up. NPM-7 September 25th. That is the day that it was released. Google it. The hypocrisy is that when someone comes and says, "Hey, the law of God should be kept in the heart. Oh, that's legalism. You're depending on the law to be saved." No, no, no, no, no, no. But at the same time, you're going to turn around and say the law should be in our schools. The same law that I just said has been done away with at the cross. That law should be in our schools. That's legalism.

That is legalism. And it is the hypocrisy of modern day Christianity. It is the hypocrisy of modern day Christianity. The battle for the Christian, beloved, is not over the nation. It is over the heart. Jeremiah 17:9. We're closing. Jeremiah 17:9. Verse 9. The Bible says, "The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Romans 7:23, "But I see another law in my members, waring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members."

Beloved, when you understand the law, the warfare that is going on in your own flesh, you do not have time to hate other people because you got a greater battle ahead of you, which is this, your flesh, self. You ought to hate self and nobody else. I hate one person and that's self. But the devil has you hating in the name of Jesus. I hate them. I hate them. I hate them. And I'm a Christian, too. How can we get them? How can we destroy them? Cuz they're just going too far now. We got to put an end to this.

We've got to save the West. Really Jesus is concerned about the west and not the east or the north or the south. Really? Jesus battle at the end of time is over the west. Where do you get that in the Bible? Where do we get that in Christianity? Where do we get Jesus saying fight for the west? Because if the west goes then all my cards are out. There's nothing else I can do. So I need you all, my church, to fight for the west. Galatians 5:17, for the flesh lustth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary one to another to another, so that you cannot do the things that you would.

The battle that God has called us to fight is the battle against the flesh, not the battle against the nation. Luke 6:45, "A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. The battle is not against the nation. The battle is not for the nation. The battle is for the heart. The heart is the promised land that God is trying to conquer in you.

Two more verses and we're done. 2 Corinthians 10:4 says, "For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds." In other words, beloved, we don't wrestle against flesh and blood. And I hear Christians using this verse today, pointing to flesh and blood, saying, "Hey, we don't wrestle against flesh and blood, but look at the flesh and blood. They are our enemies. They're demonpossessed, and we've got to do what we can through the government to get rid of them, to stop them before we lose the West."

What in the world? Show me the West in the Bible. What warfare? Jesus called us to fight. Cultural wars with non-believers. That's the battle. See, most Christians have no idea. They many Christians believe that the great controversy is a cultural war. And if you're hearing this for the first time, I want to encourage you that there is a great controversy and it is not over cultural wars. The great controversy runs much deeper. And I wish I wish that more Christians were aware of this thing called the great controversy, the real battle between Satan and Jesus and what's really on the table.

It is a battle over hearts and minds, not over nations and kingdoms. This is why Psalm 51:10, our last verse, and I got a quote I want to read you. Says, "Create in me a clean heart, oh God, and renew a right spirit within me. Not create a new nation in America. Create in me a clean heart, oh God, and renew a right spirit within me." Let me tell you something. The world is looking at Christianity today and saying, "What a mockery." I don't know God, but from what I know about Jesus, he definitely wasn't like what I'm seeing right now.

And it's all the more reason that I don't believe Jesus existed. All the more reason I don't believe that that that the Bible is real, that God, that there's a God. Because if he was real, at least I would expect to see Christ likeness in the people that claim to be following Jesus. But I do not see Christlikkeness. And when I see the people who claim to be following Jesus, accepting others as Christians who I can clearly see do not look like Jesus to me, do not talk like Jesus to me, do not act like Jesus to me, do not have the temperament of Jesus to me, then you just confirm why I believe that the whole Bible is a sham, that Christianity is just a madeup religion, because you eyes are mocking are are a mockery to the very thing you say you believe.

And what a shame for Christians to not reflect the one whom they say they follow. If Jesus were here today, he would not be allowed in many of the Christian churches because of his positions. They'd be like, "Get out. We don't want you as Jesus. We want another Jesus. We want a Jesus that's going to affirm us in what we think. My closing statement and we're going to pray. It's from the book The Desire of Ages, page 309. And it says this, "The greatest deception of the human mind in Christ's day was that a mere ascent to the truth constitutes righteousness.

In all human experience, a theoretical knowledge of the truth has been proved to be insufficient for the saving of the soul. It does not bring forth the fruits of righteousness. A jealous regard for what is termed theological truth often accompanies a hatred of genuine truth as made manifest in life. The darkest chapters of history are burdened with the record of crimes committed by bigoted religionists. The Pharisees claimed to be children of Abraham and boasted of their possession of the oracles of God.

Yet these advantages did not preserve them from selfishness, maligny, greed for gain and the basis hypocrisy. They thought themselves the greatest religionist of the world. But their soc calledled orthodoxy led them to crucify the Lord of glory. And then she says this, the same danger still exists. Many take it for granted that they are Christians simply because they subscribe to certain theological tenants. I believe marriage is between one man and one woman. I am anti-abortion. I believe. I believe.

I believe. You can even throw the Sabbath in there. I believe the Sabbath. Yet they have not brought the truth into practical life. They have not believed it and loved it. Therefore, they have not received the power and grace that come from sanctification of the truth. And listen to how it is broken down in this last sentence. You could believe all you want to believe and say, "I got the truth and I believe the truth." And this goes if you're an Adventist or if you're not an Adventist. You can believe all day long.

I have the truth. But I want you to listen to this. Men may profess faith in the truth, but if it does not make them sincere, kind, patient, forbearing, heavenly minded, it is a curse to its possessors and through their influence, it is a curse to the world. The world is being cursed right now. We can look around and see it. And could it be could one of the reasons be that the light that God put in the world, the church that was to be an example of love and mercy and kindness and grace has said, "You know what?

We're tired of being the nice guys." As if we ever were. We're tired of playing nice. We're tired of of of turning the other cheek. We're tired We're tired of what the opposition is doing. You go low, we're going low. You get angry, we're getting angry. You get mad, we're getting mad. You You You want vengeance, we're getting vengeance. Could it be that the world is is getting to be so dark right now because the light that God put into the world, that is to be through his church, is reflecting the very spirit of the people that they claim to despise and hate.

May God open the eyes of every Christian who professes the name of Jesus because there is a strong delusion that has taken hold of the Christian world and that is the same delusion that led to the fall of ancient Israel. We can live and do and have whatever kind of attitude we want. It doesn't matter because when I said I accept you, Lord, I am unconditionally saved. Doesn't matter what I do. Doesn't matter what spirit I have. Doesn't matter what spirit he has. We're Christians and we can curse you in the name of God.

We can hate you in the name of God and we'll be satisfied. We're tired and it's our turn to fight That is not Christianity. It is something else, but it is not Christianity. May the Lord open our eyes. Heavenly Father, we're asking in a special way, Lord. In fact, we're asking, Lord, right now as I pray, Lord, I'm appealing to those that are watching right now and those that will watch. I'm appealing that our hearts will be softened. That the spirit of vengeance, the spirit of anger, the deception that it doesn't matter what we do.

It doesn't matter. As long as we're doing it in your name, it doesn't matter. We can be angry in your name. We can hate people in your name. We can despise groups of people that we think aren't following you in your name and and think that we're being righteous. Lord, please open our eyes and save us from that deception. Lord, I'm going to ask that that those who are deciding to to to walk away from this style of Christianity will put that one in the chat saying, "Yes, Lord, please remove that from me."

Put that one in the chat saying to the Lord, "Lord, remove it from me. Open my eyes to see that false understandings of your character and false understandings of grace and false understandings of even prophecy can only lead to confusion and a foul and unclean spirit. Lord, please forgive us. Forgive us. for not living out the things we confess with our mouths or for saying things with our mouths that are not like you. Please Lord, save your people. You have people in every church. The churches are not perfect, but you've got sincere people in every church.

May they hear this call and come out of those systems which are encouraging hate and anger and vitriol and vengeance in the name of Jesus before they get swept up and it is too late. Please Lord, open the eyes of your sincere Israelites. May they hear your voice and through this message may they follow the lamb truly follow the lamb into all truth is my prayer in Jesus name. Amen and amen. I want to thank you all for joining uh in this message today. May God bless you. May God open your eyes. May God speak to your heart and um and may God draw you into all truth.

We're going to go ahead and put the the link up for the uh afterlow discussion for anyone who wants to join us. Uh click on that link. We're going to fellowship. We're going to talk about the Sabbath school. We'll also talk about the the the sermon and we'll get to fellowship, share what we've learned from this. And um uh if there's anyone that is interested in Bible study, please reach out to our Bible worker. If there's anyone that is interested in baptism, please reach out to our to our Bible worker.

We're going to put that address up on the screen. If it's not up already, it will go into the into the chat. And please reach out and connect with us. Let me see. I'm going to put this up on the screen. Let's go to this this slide, everyone. Um, you can see here you can follow me on social media. You can connect with LOC or you can connect with a Bible worker um by emailing Bible worker at living mana or bibleworker at living matterana.urch. You can even submit your prayer requests. And uh that's it everyone.

May God bless you. May God keep you. May God strengthen you. May God redeem you. May God draw you closer to him. Amen. Amen. Amen. God bless you. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God. It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you.

Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.