right. Hello, church family. Um, we are back. Just put a one in the chat if you could hear me. Um, we uh Wow. Uh, I have never and I think I've preached important sermons, but I've never had as much um just chaos happen um with a message as I have with this one. Um, so listen, we're going to we're going to start this from the top and I just need you to let people know, hey, we are back on. Um, we're hoping that this storm doesn't come back through. Um, but we're going to go ahead. We're going to pray again.

And, uh, we're going to start from the top. We're going to start from the top. So, um, let's do that. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Lord, I ask that you would just please uh grant us your spirit, Lord. Um Lord, please speak again as as I share this message, Lord. And um again, may your people hear and understand is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. All right, everyone. Um, again, the title of the message is three unclean spirits. We're going to be dealing with the uh with the idea that the Bible teaches that there will be a one world um government, a one world uniting, if you will.

Everyone is going to come together. Um, and the question we had it in mind was how are all the different political uh how all the different political factions, how are all the different religious uh uh um uh denominations and different religion backgrounds, how are they all going to come together in one as the Bible predicts? We're going to go back to the screen. We're going to go to the screen. We're going to open up with Revelation 13:3. Revelation 13:3. The Bible says here, "And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death, and all the world wandered after the beast."

We see here that the entire world is going to wander after the beast. The entire world is going to wander after the beast. According to Revelation 16:13, Revelation 16:13, note what the Bible says here. It says, 'I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet. For they are spirits of devils working miracles which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world to gather them to the battle of the great day of God Almighty.

The Bible tells us here that the way that the whole world is going to be gathered together is through these three unclean spirits like frogs. These unclean spirits like frogs are going to be working miracles. They're going to be working miracles. And so we see here that it will take a miracle to bring the entire world together. It's going to take a miracle to bring all the world together. So the question now is what kind of miracle is this going to be? Note again with me Matthew chapter 24 beginning with verse four.

The Bible says, "And Jesus answered and said unto them." Jesus answered and said unto them, "Take heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many, shall deceive many. Matthew 24:4 says, "For there shall arise false Christ and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders in so much that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect." So then if we bring everything together so far we see that what is going to gather the whole world together that the whole world is going to gather together what's going to gather the whole world together is uh what the Bible calls miracles and that these miracles these miracles are going to be done in the name of Jesus meaning they are going to be Christian miracles or Christlike miracle miracles.

Thus, these miracles will be designed to lead people to think they are Christian in nature. And if they deceive the whole world, it is because it is because they are deceiving the world into thinking and believing something that appears to be Christian. This lets us know beloved that the entire world is going to end up claiming Christianity because the whole world is going to be deceived. These are miracles that are of a counterfeit Christian nature designed to deceive even if even if it were possible the very elect.

Revelation 18:3. Revelation 18:3. Note what the Bible says here. It says, "For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth, have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth have waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies." The Bible tells us that all nations, not some nations, all nations, are going to drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. So all nations drink of this wine, whatever that is. All nations are going to be deceived.

And Revelation 18 verse 23 puts this in an even more specific way. Notice what it says. Revelation 18 and verse 23. The Bible says uh and the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee. And the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee. For thy merchants were the great men of the earth. For by thy sorceries were all nations deceived. By thy sorceries were all nations deceived. So the Bible tells us that what deceives the nations are sorceries. The Greek word is pharmarmacia.

But if we ask what is it that that the Bible has just said is going to bring the whole world together to deceive the whole world. It is those frogs. The frogs equal sorcery. The Greek word for sorcery is pharmarmacia. And I want you to understand this word as meaning that they they are going to be so medicated upon uh by these sorceries. Mentally medicated, not physically medicated, mentally medicated so that they cannot discern the difference between truth and error. So why does the Bible mention frogs?

Come back with me to Exodus 7. Exodus chapter 7. And I want you to notice with me verse 10. Exodus 7:10. The Bible says, by the way, this is speaking of the children of Israel as they're getting ready to leave Egypt. And you will note here that the Bible is about to tell us something about frogs. We want to know why the Bible is using frogs in Revelation chapter 18 uh Revelation 16 to describe the sorcery of Revelation 18 that is going to deceive people at the end of time. The Bible says in in Exodus 7:10 and 11, it says, "And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and as they did so, and they did so as the Lord had commanded, and Aaron cast down his rod before the Pharaoh, and before his servants, and it became a serpent."

Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers. Now the magicians of Egypt, they also did like manner in like manner with their enchantment enchantments. the the the the magicians of Pharaoh were able to counterfeit the miracle of Moses throwing down his rod and having that rod turn into a serpent. So, they were able to counterfeit this miracle. Notice again with me uh Exodus 7 21. This is now the first plague where the fish in the river died. The Bible says, "And the river stank, and the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river, and they and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt.

And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments, and Pharaoh's heart was hardened." Once again, we see here that Pharaoh, his magicians were able to counterfeit this miracle. They were able to counterfeit the miracle. And now, I want you to notice the third or the second plague, if you will. It's found in Exodus 8:1. Exodus 8:1. Note with me Exodus 8:1. And the Lord spake unto Moses, "Go unto Pharaoh and say unto him, thus sayeth the Lord, let my people go that they may serve me. And if you refuse to let them go, but behold, I will smite all thy borders with frogs.

And the river shall bring forth frogs abundantly, which shall go up, and come into thine house, and into thy bed chamber, and upon thy bed, and into the house of thy servants, and upon thy people, and into thy and into thine ovens, and into thy kneading troughs. And the frog shall come up both on thee, and upon thy people, and upon all thy servants. Note again with me that this miracle of the frogs, watch this. Let me keep reading. Let me keep reading. The Bible goes on to say verse uh verse 5. And the Lord spake unto Moses, say unto Aaron, stretch forth thine hand with a rod over the streams of the rivers, and over the ponds, and cause frogs to come upon the land of Egypt.

And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt. And the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt. And the magicians did so also with their enchantments and brought up frogs upon the land. So here's the two things I want you to see here. Number one. Number one, the magicians were able to counterfeit the plague, the plague of the frogs, but it was the last counterfeit that they could pull off. After this, they could not counterfeit any more of the miracles that God had done through Moses and Aaron.

So now they're no longer able to counterfeit, meaning this is the last counterfeit. The last counterfeit that they could pull off. Number one. Number two, uh um note with me according to Exodus 5:2. When they first go in to talk to Pharaoh, notice Pharaoh's disposition. Exodus 5:2, the Bible says, "And Pharaoh said, "Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go. I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go." Pharaoh did not know the Lord.

He rejected the Lord. He was an unbeliever. But when the plague of the frogs hit, notice what Pharaoh says. Exodus 5, Exodus chapter 8 rather, Exodus chapter 8 verse 8. Then Pharaoh called from Moses and Aaron and said, "Entreat the Lord that he may take away the frogs from me." So what has Pharaoh now done? Pharaoh has now moved from unbeliever to believer. Pharaoh has now moved from believer. Yeah. And he was an atheist, but the miracle of the frogs makes him a believer. Now, he's not a believer in heart, but he believe he's he's mentally asenting.

Okay, there's a God. What does this tell us? What this tells us, beloved, is that the plague of the frogs did two things or reveals two things. Number one, this is the last miracle that Satan will be able to counterfeit before the coming of Jesus. And number two, this miracle makes unbelievers into believers. At the end of time, there's not going to be unbelievers and atheists and agnostics and people of all these different religions. At the end of time, the frogs is going to the miracle of the frogs is going to make everybody a believer.

Put a one in the chat if you follow me so far. So now the question is very simple. What is the last miracle Satan will be able to counterfeit which will convince unbelievers? Let's go back to the screen. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2:1. The Bible says, "Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto him, that you be not soon shaken in mind or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as at the day of Christ is at hand.

Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of predition, who has who opposes and exaltth himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so that he as God sitth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. understand what's going on here. We're told in this verse that just before Jesus comes again, there's going to be a revelation of someone who is sitting who who is claiming to be God.

And in order to claim to be God, it's going to have to be someone with supernatural power that will actually be able to convince people that he is God. And beloved, this is in fact the Bible telling us what that miracle is going to be. It is going to convince people unbelievers to become believers. And it will be the last miracle that Satan can counterfeit before the second coming of Christ. Come on, let's go back to the screen. And I want you to note with me, note with me. Uh 2 Thessalonians chapter 8.

Then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming, even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders. We are told here that whatever this miracle is, it will be the working of Satan. It will be the working of Satan. According to Matthew 24:30, the Bible says, "Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven, and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory."

So if Jesus is coming is something that happens with great power and glory and everybody is going to see it. I want you to understand that Satan somehow or another is going to attempt to do something miraculous before Jesus comes again. And please note with me 2 Corinthians chapter 11:14. The Bible says, "And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers of righteousness or also be transformed as ministers of righteousness whose end shall be according to their works."

So now we're literally told here that Satan is going to transform himself into an angel of light. put this all together. Miracles are going to be happening. There's going to be a miracle that occurs just before Jesus comes again. The miracle will will convince unbelievers that God exists, that God exists. It's going to be a counterfeit miracle in the name of Jesus. And it's going to be a miracle that involves the appearing of a being who will look like Jesus, who will claim to be Jesus, who will claim to be God.

But we know that this individual is Satan himself who is transformed as an angel of light. Note again with me 1 Thessalonians chapter 14, chapter 4 verse 15. Notice what the Bible says. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first.

Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. So, please note here that that when when when Jesus comes again, the Bible says he's coming with the voice of the archangel. Put the name of the archangel in the chat for me, please. The name of the archangel is Michael. So, we know that the coming of Jesus is somehow or another tied in with the voice of the archangel at which time the dead shall rise.

So, whatever this miracle is, it's going to happen shortly before this event with Michael the archangel. Why is this so important to understand? Because the same event is described in the book of Daniel 12 beginning with verse one. Note with me Daniel 12:1 the Bible says and at that time shall Michael stand up the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people. And there shall be a time of trouble such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time. And at that time thy people shall be delivered.

Everyone that shall be found written in the book, and many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. So Daniel 12 parallels the event that we just read about in 1 Thessalonians. Daniel 12 is speaking of the resurrection of the dead when Michael stands up. Thessalonians describes it as the voice of the archangel raising the dead. Now, why am I pointing out Daniel 12 to show this parallel event? Because one chapter earlier and in fact just five six verses earlier we read about a particular power or being called the king of the north.

Come back with me to Daniel 11 and verse 40. Daniel 11:40 the Bible says so this is five verses before Daniel 12:1. It says, "And at that at the time of the end, the king of the south shall push at him." Don't worry about who the king of the south is at the moment, but I want you to focus on this king of the north. And the king of the north shall come against him like a whirlwind and with chariots and with horsemen and with many ships and shall enter into the countries and shall overflow and pass over.

Okay. So what is this power or who is this power who is described as a king of the north who is going to overflow in these countries and come against these countries and come against this other king like a whirlwind with chariots and with ships. May I suggest to you that this king of the north power or being is the same being described in sec in uh Thessalonians which says just before Jesus comes again this power is going to sit in the place of God pretending to be God. May I suggest that just as Daniel 12 parallels what we've seen in the New Testament that this king of the north power that leads up to Michael standing up is none other than the same being we are told will sit in the temple of God showing himself to be God.

Let me make it a even clearer. Let me make it even clearer. Who is this king of the north? In the book of Isaiah chapter 14, in the book of Isaiah chapter 14:12, you will note speaking the Bible speaking of Lucifer, it says, "How art thou fallen from heaven, oh Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground which did weaken the nations? For thou has said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north.

I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the most high. I will be like the most high. Lucifer himself in heaven wanted the place and position of God. As a result of that, he was kicked out of heaven. At the very end of time, Lucifer himself, Satan himself, will attempt to do exactly what he did in heaven on earth. Meaning, he will seek to take the place of God. This is the being that is being described as appearing just before the Lord himself comes. In fact, the Hebrew word here for I will be like is the word dama.

And I want you to note what the word means. It means to com. It means by implication to resemble. Put that word in the chat for me, everyone. To resemble. Resemble. This being is going to seek to resemble the most high. Now in Bible prophecy, we've talked about we talk about other powers and particular particularly the little horn of Daniel 7 which we describe as a papal power. It is an anti-Christian power but it is not the ultimate anti-Christian power. papacy will be to Satan what John the Baptist was to Jesus.

John the Baptist was only preparing the way for Jesus. In the same way, the the papacy, the little horn of Daniel 7 is not the ultimate antichrist. The ultimate antichrist, the ultimate individual to put himself in the place of Christ is Satan himself. Now, I want you to watch what the text says because remember, speaking of this of this king of the north power, let me go back. Let me go back just a few slides and I'm going to read Daniel 11:40 again. And notice what the Bible says here. At the time of the end, at the time of the end shall the king of the south push at him and the king of the north shall come against him like a whirlwind with chariots and with horsemen and with many ships.

Okay. So what does it mean then that this little horn comes like a whirlwind? What does that signify? I want you to note with me Isaiah 66:15. In Isaiah 66:15, we're going to see something absolutely amazing. Isaiah 66:15 reads, "For behold, the Lord will come with fire with his chariots." There we go. The Lord will come with fire and with his chariots like a whirlwind. Like a what everyone? Like a whirlwind to render his anger with fury and his rebuke with flames of fire. So we know that when the Lord himself returns, the Bible says he is coming like a whirlwind.

He is coming with a whirlwind. He's coming with chariots. How is the the king of the north described in Daniel 11:40? Just before Michael stands up, the king of the north is described as coming like a whirlwind and with chariots. So let's talk about these chariots for a moment because now I want you to understand here that what we're seeing is that the Bible is telling us that the ultimate miracle, the final miracle of Satan will be a counterfeiting of Jesus Christ. A counterfeiting of his second coming.

Satan will make it appear that he is the second coming of Jesus. And for unbelievers whom seeing is believing, this is the miracle above every other miracle that is going to bring the whole world together on the same page. Listen y'all, when Satan comes as Christ, he is not coming alone. The text says that he's coming with chariots. The king of the north is coming with chariots. What do you mean by chariots, pastor? Let's go to 2 Kings chapter 6 verse 17. And I want you to note with me 2 Kings chapter 6 and verse 17.

The Bible says, "And Elijah prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes that he may see." Elijah is praying that his servant who who they are surrounded by the Syrian army, his servant is petrified. ter is he's he's he's worrying and Elijah prayed that the servant's eyes would be open and notice the next verse or the notice the same verse rather and the Lord opened the eyes of the young man and he saw and behold the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elijah. What do the chariots and horses what does that symbolize?

Who are they? These are the angels. When Satan comes again, just like the frogs that overtook the land, they were in the houses, they were in their beds, they were everywhere. In the very same way, beloved, when Satan comes impersonating Jesus, his angels, Satan's angels are going to manifest themselves as angels of light, angels from heaven. And beloved, let me tell you this. If you think or if you there's a reason the Bible says it will be a time of trouble unlike any other time in history. I want you to understand why it is because when Satan comes again, he's not coming alone.

He's coming with chariots horsemen, which is going to lead people to the overwhelming conclusion that this must be Jesus and the angels from heaven. Notice again with me Psalm 68:17. Psalm 68:17, the Bible says, "The chariots of God are 20,000, even thousands of angels." Do y'all see this? The chariots of God are 20,000, even thousands of angels. These are angels. Satan is coming with an army of chariots and horsemen. Angels that will be pretending to be heavenly angels when in fact they are demons.

Just as the frogs overtook the land, so these angels will overtake the land. It will be an overwhelming experience for all who are not grounded on the word of God. If you do not understand the Bible, this overmastering delusion will convince you that this is something of God. All right. What about the ships? Come with me to Psalm 107:23. If he's coming with an army of chariots and an army of ships, we might say a navy of ships. Well, who is this navy? What do they represent? Come with me. Psalm 107:23.

Psalm 107 verse 23. The Bible says um the Bible says, "They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in the great waters, these see the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deep." So, here's what I want you to see here. Ships are connected with the deep. Ships are connected with the deep. the waters. Now, why is that significant? Let me show you what the deep symbolizes in scripture. Come again with me to Psalm 69 verse one and two. Save me, oh God, for the waters are coming unto my soul.

I sink in deep mire where there is no standing. I am come into deep waters where the floods overflow me. What do what does the deep represent here? The deep represents death. Let's verify that. Let's verify that. We're going to go back to the screen and I want you to notice the story of Jonah. Jonah chapter 2 verse 1-3. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of the fish's belly and said, "I cry by reason of mine affliction unto the Lord. And he heard my he heard me. Out of the belly of hell, cried I, and thou heardest my voice.

For thou hast cast me into the deep, in the midst of the seas, and the floods compassed me about, and thy billows, all thy billows, and thy waves passed over me. Now, you remember that when Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights in the deep, that Jesus uses exact example to talk about his own death. his own death. Therefore, in fact, in Romans chapter 10:7, it comes out clearly and says it. Romans 10:7, notice what the Bible says. Romans 10:7, or who or verse 7, verse 7.

Yeah. Or who shall descend? Who shall descend? Oh boy. Hold on. Hold on. Let me let me come back. Let me come back. There we go. There we go. Who shall descend into the deep? That is to bring up Christ again from the dead. Do you see that? From the dead. Psalm 68:22, the Lord said, "I will bring again from Bashan. I will bring my people again from the depths of the sea." It is a poetical way of speaking about the resurrection of the dead. And in fact, even if you go to 17:15, the Bible tells us in Revelation 17 verse verse 15, he saith unto me, "The waters which thou saw where the horse siteth are peoples and nations and multitudes and tongues."

Let's put this all together. If the sea in one sense represent peoples, nations, multitudes, and tongues, but in another sense it represents the dead, those who have died, then the army of ships that Satan is going to represent a counterfeit resurrection of the dead. And just as the frogs overtook the land and they were everywhere, so beloved, when this miracle happens, not only is it this dazzling being who is coming pretending to be Christ, but to back up his claim that he is Christ, number one, he will be accompanied by an army of angels claiming to be angelic beings that are coming with Jesus at second coming along with the resurrection of the dead, your dead loved ones, our dead loved ones claiming that this is really Jesus.

It will be sensory overload. Which is why, beloved, if you are used to going by your senses and not by a thus sayeth the Lord, you're setting yourself up for deception. Yes, this is demonic drama. Just as the frogs overtook the land, so these three unclean spirits like frogs coming out out of the mouth of the dragon, the beast, and the false prophet are going to overtake the land. That's why we we often refer to it as an overwhelming deception. This is why it is so important to understand beloved that the reason God said do not communicate with the dead.

Deuteronomy 18:10, notice what the Bible says. There shall not be found among any of you anyone that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, or that uses divination, or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or a consultant with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer. For all that do these things are an abomination unto the Lord. Why? Because according to Ecclesiastes 9:5 and 6, the living know that they shall die, but the dead know not anything.

Neither have they anymore a reward, for the memory of them is forgotten. Let me tell you something, beloved. When Jesus resurrects his people, they will be bodily resurrected. These are not going to be spirits. These are going to be bodily resurrected saints. And unless you know your Bible, you're going to be overwhelmed by this deception. Note again with me. Note again with me that these unclean spirits come out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet.

Let's put it back up on the screen. Revelation 16:13. I saw three unclean spirits like frogs coming out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet. For they are spirits of devils working miracles which go forth unto the kings of the of the whole of the earth and the whole world to gather them to the great day of God to the battle of the great day of God Almighty. Why is this significant? Remember in Daniel chapter 11, you have the whirlwind, that's the air.

You have the chariots and the horsemen running upon the land. And you have the ships in the sea, the three unclean spirits. This this is a union of land, sea, and air power. Let me say it again. It is as if the attack is so overwhelming. It's coming from the air. It's coming from the land. It's coming from the sea. Symbolically speaking. And beloved, that is significant because when you look at the beast, watch this. In Revelation 13:11, the beast that is spoken about here comes up out of the sea.

Revelation 13:1. And I stood upon the sand of the sea and saw a beast rise up out of the sea. We're not going to even identify this beast for now. We just just just just follow what I'm saying here. The there's a beast from the sea in Revelation 13:11. There's another beast that comes up out of the earth having two horns like a lamb and speaks as a dragon. This is what was this is the beast known as the false prophet. He has the horns of a lamb. That's Jesus. But speaks like a dragon. He's a false prophet.

His his speech is false. And then you have the dragon. Revelation uh chapter 12:3. You have the dragon. Note with me. Here it is on the screen. And there appeared another wonder in heaven. And behold, a great red dragon. There it is. A great red dragon having seven heads and 10 horns. There is air power, the dragon in the in the in the in the heavens. There is sea power, the beast from the sea. And there is earth power, the beast from the earth. the the unclean spirits will be using these three elements to help gather the whole world together under the leadership of this counterfeit Jesus Christ.

In fact, in Revelation 18:1, note with me there, Revelation 18:1, the Bible says, "And after these things, I saw another angel come down from heaven having great power, and the earth was lightened with his glory, and he cried with a strong voice, mightily, with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become what? the habitation of devils and the hold of every foul spirit and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird. The text is literally telling us that there is coming a time where Babylon will be literally inhabited by devils and demons.

That is not the case now. Babylon as it exists now has not completely fallen. It cannot yet be said that Babylon is fallen because it is not yet the habitation of devils. Devils haven't moved in to planet Earth. But there is coming a time where that veil that separates the seen from the unseen is going to be ripped away and almost as if you're in a sci-fi movie except it is not a sci-fi movie. Demons in disguise or disguised as angels will come and live among us. The greatest of them being Lucifer who is claiming to be Jesus.

Y'all put a one in the chat if you're following what I'm saying. If this makes sense. We're demonstrating this strictly from the Bible. Note what the Bible says in John 14:1. In John 14:1, the Bible says, "Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also.

Where I am, there you may be also. Jesus says, when I come again, I'm not coming to set up a kingdom here on the earth. I'm coming to take you where I am. And this is how we may know that this is a counterfeit because Jesus doesn't come to dwell here with us at the second coming. He says, "I'm coming to take you that where I am, there you may be also." In fact, in fact, in 1 Thessalonians 4:16, the Bible says, "For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first.

Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, not on the earth, to meet the Lord in the air, not on the earth. To meet the Lord in the air, not on the earth. And so shall we ever what? Be with the Lord. Just like Jesus said, that you may be where I am. where I am, you may be there with me also. So, how do we know that this is a counterfeit? Jesus, when he comes again, he doesn't touch the earth. He stops in the air. The saints meet him in the air and he goes, he takes them to heaven with him.

The counterfeit which people because people do not realize that when Jesus comes again, he doesn't touch the ground. When Jesus comes again, he calls the saints up in the air to meet him. When Jesus comes again, the saints are bodily resurrected, not spirits that you can't touch. And you, you know, because many people don't know this, they are being set up to receive this overmastering delusion, this deception. If y'all with me so far, put a one in the chat. We're breaking this down strictly from scripture.

And now I want to show you what is Satan going to do when he sits in the temple of God showing himself that he is God. When all the world has come together to worship him as God. What is happening? What why is he doing this? Come back with me to Revelation 13:3. Revelation 13:3. Notice what the Bible says here. Revelation 13:3. The Bible says, "And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men, and deceive them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast, saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast beast, which had the wound by the sword, and did live."

Okay. So, what is this talking about? What is this fire? What is the purpose of the fire falling? Why does the Bible use that terminology? He will cause fire to fall from the sky. Ah, we got to go back to another Old Testament story. And that Old Testament story is a story of Elijah and the 450 false prophets. Note with me what the Bible says in First Kings chapter 18. Now remember remember this that in this story of Elijah with the false prophets, they gather together and they're about to have this contest.

Whichever Elijah is going to pray, they're going to pray. They're going to pray to their gods. Elijah is going to pray to his God. Whichever god answers by fire, the text said, "Let him be God." That was a challenge. Let's see if your God is a real God or my God is a real God. And so I want you after the 450 false prophets, they're doing everything, dancing and whatever, whatever, and fire doesn't fall. Notice what happens next. First Kings 18:23. First Kings chapter 18:23, the Bible says, "Let them therefore," let's see, here we Let them therefore give us two bulocks, and let them choose one bulock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on wood, put no fire under, and I will dress the other bulock, and lay it on the on the wood, and put no fire under it.

And ye call upon the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of the Lord, and the God that answers by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and said, "It is well spoken." Verse 36. Um, so the Bible says after they do all of this and the false prophets don't get an answer in verse 36, it came to pass. There we go. It says, "It came to pass at the time of the evening sacrifice that Elijah the prophet came near and said, Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel and that I am thy servant and that I have done all these things at thy word.

Hear me, oh Lord. Hear me that this people may know that thou art the Lord God and that thou has turned their heart back again. I want you to note again that this miracle is designed to turn the hearts of the people to God. And so what happens? Verse 38. Then the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood and the stones and the dust and licked up the water that was in the trench. And now watch this. And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and they said, "The Lord, he is God.

The Lord, he is the God." What's going on here? This miracle of fire falling from the sky, this counterfeit is to prove that God is God. What I want you to understand, beloved, is that this is the very miracle. It is the frogs of Revelation chapter 16. It is the king of the north coming like the whirlwind of Daniel chapter 11. This is the miracle that brings the whole world to say he is God. He is God. Are y'all with me? This is the miracle that turns the heart of the people to this counterfeit God that leads them to worship.

This is why Revelation 13:4 says this. Let me read it. Revelation 13 13:4, "And they worshiped the dragon which gave power unto the beast. And they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who is able to make war with him. Revelation 13:15. And they he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed. Do you guys remember what happened when Elijah um after the fire fell?

What happened to the 450 false prophets? What happened to them? They were what everybody? They were killed. When all the world is convinced that this is God, but there's a group of people saying, "Nah, you are not God. You are the devil." What? What did you just say about Jesus? You just blasphemed. And what is the punishment blasphemy especially in the face of Jesus? The punishment will be death. Whosoever would not worship the image should be killed. It is a perversion. The devil's going to pervert counterfeit the story of Elijah, a prophet.

It's going to be a false prophet. It's going to be a false Jesus. And those who refuse to bow and to say he is God are going to be punished with a death decree. That's what the Bible tells us. Come on, let's go back to Isaiah 66:15. And I want you to notice this here. Isaiah 66:15. And we're almost there, guys. We are almost finished. Isaiah 66:15. We had read this verse earlier. It says, "For behold, the Lord will come with fire and with his chariots like a whirlwind to render his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire."

So, we've already seen that the devil's going to try to counterfeit this. For by fire and by his sword will he plead with all flesh, and the slain of the Lord shall be many. This is what the devil's going to seek to counterfeit. The devil's going to seek to to plead with all flesh. I'm Jesus. Come worship me. Let's see what the rest of the text says. Verse 17 or verse 18. For I know their works and their thoughts. It shall come that I will gather all nations and tongues, and they shall come and see my glory.

Do you see what Satan is going to try to counterfeit? This verse is talking about Jesus, but Satan's going to attempt to counterfeit Isaiah 66. He wants all the world to see his glory and to come and worship. Let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. Notice what the text goes on to say. And I will set a sign among them. A sign among them. And I will send those that escape of them unto the nations to Tarses to P to Lud and that draw the b the bow to Tubal and Javant to the aisles a far off that have not heard of my fame neither have seen my glory and they shall declare my glory among the Gentiles.

Let me tell you why. When Jesus comes again, every eye sees him. That can't happen with Satan. They're not going to see him at the same time. So Satan's going to have to send Satan can't be everywhere at one time. So, Satan is going to have to send his missionaries, his evangelists, his angels to the whole world. These are three unclean spirits that are a counterfeit of something the Bible calls the three angels messages. The three unclean spirits are going to be gathering the whole world. While at the same time, the three angels messages found in Revelation chapter 14 are going to be gathering all those who are faithful to Jesus.

Two different messages. Two different messages. Notice what Isaiah 66 goes on to say. This gets very interesting, beloved. If it if you're not interested yet, watch this. Isaiah 66 verse 20. Verse 20. And they shall bring, here we go, and they shall bring all your brethren for an offering unto the Lord, out of all nations upon horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and upon mules, and upon swift beasts to my holy mountain in Jerusalem, sayith the Lord, as the children of Israel bring an offering in a clean vessel unto the house of the Lord.

This is exactly what the devil's going to attempt to counterfeit here on earth. He's going to try to get all the world all the world, all the world to come and worship him. And then then verse 21, and I will also take of them priests for uh for for them take for them priests and for Levites, say the Lord. Hm. Priests and Levites. He's going to call them to be kings and priests with him for a thousand years. Do y'all catch this? We're going to come to that in a moment. But I want you to note how the devil is literally seeking to counterfeit prophecy, but twist it so that the world will worship him.

Let's keep reading. I will take for them for priests and for and for Levites. For as the new heavens and the new earth which I shall make shall remain before me, sayeth the Lord, so shall your seed in your name remain. And it shall come to pass that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another shall all flesh come before me to worship. Here's what I need y'all to understand. The devil is going to make it so that every the whole world comes before him to worship and they will think they're worshiping Jesus.

And his special sign will be Sabbath to Sabbath. And we're not going to get into that now, but I just need you to know that just as it's a counterfeit Jesus, it will be a counterfeit verse. Note the next verse. And they shall go forth and look upon the carcasses of the men that have transgressed against me. Do y'all see this? The devil's going to make it so that the righteous are considered wicked and the wicked are considered righteous. The wicked will be the priests and the Levites that are serving the quote unquote Lord while the while the righteous will be deemed as the men that have transgressed against this Jesus.

In Revelation chapter 20, in Revelation chapter 20, the Bible says, "And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit in his hand, and a great chain. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, and cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled." And after that he must be loose a little season.

And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them. And I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the word of God, and which had not worshiped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads or in their hands. And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. I want y'all to understand that this this is what the Bible describes as the millennium, the 1,000 years. And the Bible tells us that in the millennium, the saints will spend it with Jesus in heaven.

But Satan will make it appear that the millennium is taking place here on earth. So that when he comes, he's going to say to the world, "The millennium has begun. This is the reign of peace, and everyone who is against this reign of peace is against me, and they ought to be put to death. They ought to be put to death." Just like in First Kings 18:39, when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces, and they said, "The Lord, he is God. The Lord, he is the God." And Elijah said unto them, "Take the prophets of Baal.

Let not one of them escape." And they took them, and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kidron, and slew them there. This is going to be a counterfeit, beloved, of that story. All those who refuse to worship this Jesus, a death decree will be issued against them. And now you can begin to understand why Revelation 12 says these words. Revelation 12:1 17, the dragon was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.

This this counterfeit miracle will be targeted towards those who refuse to worship Jesus, this Jesus. So the question is, how do I stand in the midst of such an overwhelming delusion that will take the world by storm? How do I stand? Let me show you. Um, let me show you and then then we'll close up. Revelation 15:2, please note what the Bible says here. Revelation 15:2, I saw an angel. Uh, I'm sorry. I saw as it were a sea of glass, a sea of glass, my slide, sea of glass mingled with fire. Them that had gotten the victory over the beast and over his image and over his mark and over the number of his name stand on the sea of glass, having the hearts of God.

We see here that there will be in fact a people who have the victory over everything that these three unclean spirits are going to attempt to do. Why do they have the victory? Let me let me suggest to you number one that they stood on the word of God. The Bible says, "Therefore, whosoever he hearth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded on a rock.

And everyone who hearth these sayings of mines, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house on the sand. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. May I suggest to you that the word of God, you must make it your ultimate guide, not your emotions, not your feelings. Because if you depend on emotions and feelings, if you allow your emotions and feelings to get the best of you, and beloved, listen to me.

Sometimes we can allow our emotions and our feelings to get the best of us. when today as I'm g as I'm preaching and the power kicked out. Oh boy, I I was frustrated. I was like, why? Why? Why now? I have a message to preach. This message is going to be powerful. Why now? And beloved, sometimes our emotions can get the best of us and every one of us have to deal with it. How Lord, how can I train? How can I give myself so fully to you that my emotions will not get the best of me? Because if you allow your emotions to get the best of you, I'm telling you, when this thing comes, and the glory that you see is unlike anything you have ever seen It will draw you in a way nothing has ever drawn you before.

And unless we have unless we're standing on the word of God, unless we're standing on the word God, this is why Jesus said, "If it were possible, even the very elect would be deceived. Do not allow your senses to overwhelm you." The Bible says in second 2 second Timothy chapter 2:15, "Study to show thyself approved unto God a workman that needeth not be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth." You have study the word of God. Some people say you don't have to study as long as you know Jesus.

Listen y'all. The reason Jesus gave us the word is because precisely because it is the word that guides our path. It is the word that that shows us the way in which we should walk. 2 Corinthians 5:17 says, "For we walk by faith, not by sight." If you're going to trust your sight over faith, you're going to end up falling to this overmastering delusion. Remember, remember what Jesus said. Matthew 24:2, he said, "Behold, I told you before, wherefore, if they shall say unto you, if they shall say unto you, behold, he's in the desert, believe it not.

He's in the secret chamber. Go not forth. For as lightning cometh out of or as lightning shineth out of the east and cometh even unto the west, so shall the coming of the son of man be. He literally says, except those days be shortened, no flesh shall be saved. This is how deep this time is going to be. And according to Jeremiah 12:5, Jeremiah 12:5, the Bible tells us, let me just just skipping through my slides now. If thou has run with the footmen, and they have wearied thee, then how can you contend with horses?

And if in the land of peace, wherein you trusted, they wearied thee, then how will thou do in the swelling of the Jordan? Beloved, listen to me. The little trials we face now will be nothing compared to what we will face then, if we happen to be alive in this time. And the Bible says, if the little things overwhelm us, if the little things overwhelm us, how are we going to do when this sensory overload takes the whole world storm? And I that's no pun on words. That's no pun on words. Or I should say, yeah, pun intended.

How will you do when this storm hits the whole world? The Bible says in Amos 3:3, "Can two walk together except they be agreed?" Can two walk together except they be agreed? Let me say this. Let me say this. you that Satan has in him, when you see him, you going you're going to be drawn to him. When Jesus said, "The prince of this world cometh and has nothing in me." There was nothing in him that was attracted to Satan that could be attracted to Satan. Remember, when Satan appears to Jesus in the wilderness, he's appearing to him as an angel of light.

If there is stuff in your heart that is unclean, so remember what we call these spirits. These were unclean spirits. unclean is attracted to unclean. And what God is demonstrating here in this time is that only those who are unclean will be attracted to these unclean frogs, to these unclean spirits. So, so God is showing us, he's telling us, listen, pray to get the unclean out you. Pray to get Christ in you and the unclean out of you. Here's our closing text. It's a parable really, but I think it's significant for our closing text.

It's Luke 11 24. And it says this, "When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places seeking rest and findeth none. And he saith, I will return unto my house once I came out." And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished. It's empty. What does he do? He goes and takes to him seven other spirits more wicked than himself. And they enter in and dwell there. And the state, the last state of that man is worse than the first. The enemy of souls is seeking to let out these unclean spirits into our homes, up in our beds, up in our food.

The time is not it's not come yet, but it is coming. beloved, is to have Jesus in your heart. Because if he's not in your heart and those frogs come trying to get into your house, they're going to find a way in. And they're not coming alone. Won't just be one frog. It'll be legions of them. So our prayer today, our prayer, my prayer is that our prayer will be Lord remove from me every unclean thing. Let Satan have nothing in me so that should I be alive when this time comes that I will not there will be nothing in me that is drawn to him nothing in me that responds to him.

Beloved, we got to be careful. If if you respond, if if if corrupt people draw you now, if unclean people mesmerize you now, if you're just attracted in some strange way to people who who do not have the spirit of God in them, and you just like, yeah, you know, just imagine what it'll be like when Satan himself appears as Jesus. Lord, help us to not be among those that will be deceived by these May it be our prayer that we will study the word of God to show ourselves approved and that we will allow Christ the hope of glory to dwell in us to keep us safe and to keep our homes our homes barricaded from these unclean spirits.

Heavenly Father, thank you for listening to us or thank you for listening to our prayer. Thank you Lord for speaking to your people today. And Lord, I um I just ask Lord that you would help us to to overcome um our feelings, our emotions, Lord. Lord, I ask that you would forgive me, Lord, for just my frustration, Lord, with the power going out. And it seemed like everything that could have gone wrong with this message went wrong with it. Lord, please humble us so that we see our our ways. we see the things that we need um to rid ourselves of that we might be ready when you come again to receive us.

Please Lord, help us to put faith over [Music] feeling. Faith over emotion. Your word over anything our senses tell us. Thank you Lord for hearing and answering this prayer because we ask it in Jesus name. Amen. And amen. Uh thank you all for uh tuning back in. Um wow, we almost had as as as many as we had when the thunderstorm came and kicked us all out. So um uh shut the power off. So, um, we're going to put the link in the, uh, the link for the slides in the chat. I think we've just put it in.

So, if you want to take this, uh, sermon and share it, if you want to listen again, if you're an evangelist, if you're doing a series and you've never preached this before, um, I've just given you everything that you need to preach this message from the Bible and the Bible only. Um, but above that, above all that, may we live this thing out and may we be ready uh for when this time comes and we we we just uh pray that uh none of us will be found wanting in that time. All right, may God bless you.

We're going to put the link to the altar live. I don't know if we're still going to be doing the altar live. I know that it is way later than we typically finish, but um uh we'll put the link in and um we'll see how the Lord leads. May God bless you and may God keep you. Amen. Thank you for joining us today. If this is your first time worshiping with us, please check out our website at livingmana.urch. We are not just here for Sabbath service. We have weekly programming too that covers mental health, physical health, weekly prayer service, financial health, and proving the existence of God.

It is our desire that our programming will continue to bless you. Please continue to pray for us as we fulfill God's mission to go into all the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.