my life free moving pain. heal a heart that hurts. I want to spend my life ending broken people. I want to spend my life mending broken people. Hello and welcome to another 3ABN today live. Thank you for joining us as you do each and every day. Thank you for your love and your prayers and financial support of 3ABN as we endeavor to take this great gospel of the kingdom into all the world. I have a co-host with me today, none other than Dr. Ivon Lewis. Ivon, it's good to have you here. It's great to be here.

And I don't think that um whether they say flood or high waters or anything could keep you from being sitting in this chair today. I know. Excited. I'm tell us why you're so excited. because our guest today is just going to bring we are going to be so blessed by what God has given him to give to us. Okay. You want to introduce him? I do. Pastor Ivra Meyers. He is um he hosts a a program on the Dare the Dream Network and is co-hosting another program. He hosts Battles of Faith. Yes. but with his wife Atante, but he's also hosting co-hosting salvation and symbols and signs, which is our prophecy program on Revelation.

Amen. And I'm so excited and oh man, the the insights that God has given you and and James Rafferty and Jason and I are the students, so to speak, and we sit there and we we learn from them. But the insights that God has given you and and Pastor James, I mean, there it's just phenomenal. Amen. Phenomenal. What what what we're going to have to do is we're going to have to borrow some of those programs from Dare to Dream, put them on the parent because we're going to be losing all of our audience.

They're going to be looking up Dare to Dream instead of watching the Parent Network, you know. So, sometimes a parent just has to say, "Look, we need this." So, so we'll share it. How about that? We'll we'll share it. We're doing that. you. The Parent Network is showing Salvation Symbols and Signs. Some days Dare to Dream is showing it every day at 6:30 p.m. Central. Oh, she got that in. She got that in. Okay, I opened up that door. So, that's fine. What we're going to do before we get into our study, we want you to call your friends, your relatives, your enemies, everybody, and tell them to stay tuned tonight because we already have had a little foretaste.

We know what's coming. And this is amazing stuff. This is not stuff you've heard every day. Some of this you may never have heard, but we want you to hear it because we believe it's the Holy Spirit has anointed you, pastor, and given you an end times message for an end times people. And I think all of us, so no matter what denomination or what religion you are, you may want to whatever you are, some folk are watching that says, "I'm not necessarily a Christian. I'm not anything." Well, this is especially for you.

And uh so we want you to join today. But before we do, we're going to ask you to do two things. One is we're going to use the uh the science of television, and we've already pre pre-recorded you at another time singing a song, but it so fit today that I said we normally don't do this. Yeah. But you with your permission, we're going to have you sing a song in Christ alone. In Christ alone my hope is found. He is my light, my strength, my song. This corner stone, this solid ground firm through the fiercest drought and storm.

What heights of love, what depths of peace, when fears are stilled and striving cease. My comforter, my all in all. Here in the love of Christ I stand. In Christ alone who took on flesh, fullness of God in helpless babe. This gift of love and rightuousness scorned by the ones he came to save. On that cross as Jesus died, the wrath of God was satisfied for every sin on him was laid. Here in the death of Christ I live. over the ground his body lay. Light of the world by darkness slain. Then bursting forth in glorious day.

Up from the grave, he rose again. And as he stands in victory since curse has lost its grip on me, for I am his and he is mine. bought with the precious blood of Christ. [Music] No guilt in life, no fear in death. This is the power of Christ in me. From life's first cry to find the breath. Jesus commands my destiny. No power of hell, no scheme of man can ever block me from his hand. Till he returns to take me home. Here in the power of Christ I'll stand for hell. No scheme of man can never block me from his hand.

[Applause] The star. Amen. That's a two-hander. Amen. That's a two-hander. Thank you, Ivon. Praise the Lord. So, it's pretty neat to have it on where we can literally roll a tape and be singing and then have you here, too. this she's real tonight. She's here. This is live. Ivor will pastor will will confirm this. This is the real Ivonne right here. But uh anyway, thank you so much for your music and what you do for the cause of God and Dare to Dream. Thank you. And tonight again, if you're just joining us, we have Pastor Ivor Myers.

Where where are you pastoring? Where? Tell us a little bit about your family. Yes, I am uh pastoring in Campbell, San Jose, the Campbell 7th Day Adventist Church. Um four children, one wife. Okay. Uh my children are Joshua, Jaden, Genesis, Jalia. My wife is a Tante. And of course, we host the uh Battles of Faith program on 3ABN. And um so we've been in the ministry for uh what over 18 years now. 18 years. Ivonne was saying, "You don't look old enough to have been in ministry 18 years." Must have started young.

He must have. Yeah. Now, how long you been coming to 3ABN? So, it has been Oh, boy. Been a while, haven't we? It's been a while. It's been a while. I think the first time was 2005. Yeah, maybe. So, cuz I went out and your daughter, how's your youngest daughter? She She is uh she My youngest daughter is 10. 10 or so. Yeah. That I know. I went out for dedication sometime. And you had been here before then. So, it's been a while. So, it's been over a decade. They've been coming to 3ABN. We appreciate what you do for the cause of God.

And what I like about Pastor Meyers is he brings us stuff we didn't already know. Yes. So I'll never forget my aunt Mildred years ago, she when she was watching Christian television before there was 3ABN and preachers would be on and one day I was out there Sunday morning and the TV station was on and so she went and turned it off. Some preacher was preaching and one of the kids said, "Mom, why don't you don't you want to hear this Christian preacher?" and she said, "No." They said, "Why not?" She said, "Cuz he never tells me something I didn't already know."

So, that won't be the case tonight. I I can almost assure the folks that you're going to hear something. You're going to learn something that maybe you didn't already know. Amen. So, tonight, pastor, mostly we're going to we're getting you started here, but we won't let you run with this thing. Okay? We'll be here, you know, if you need us, but for all practical purposes, uh we're going to be here for quite a while. So we want you again to call your friends, your enemies, everybody. Tell them watch this program tonight.

We've already prayed and asked for an anointing of the Holy Spirit. So we know that's going to work. But give us a little bit maybe a a little preview of where where we want to go from A to Z and then let's come back and do it. Okay. Well, um what I want to share tonight is um really about the the the destiny of God's movement. Okay. and uh how can we know where we are in earth's history? How can we know where we need to go? And uh how can we how can we look at the word of God uh to discover what God's end time mission is?

Wow. um what lessons and we're going to um the first text we're going to look at is 1 Corinthians chapter 10 where Paul talks about the lessons uh that are to be learned from ancient Israel and um you know in in the sports world or you know really we have technology let's use the sports world when when you know two teams are playing each other and they've got a series of games you know after game one you'll often hear them say things like we got to go back and watch the tape watch the tape Are they watching the tape?

Because they want to see where they can do better. If they lost or if they won, how can they keep winning? Absolutely. So God has some tape and it's it's the Old Testament. Okay. And he he has given us the Old Testament especially in these end times to help us not to make the same mistakes that ancient Israel made. M so he gives us this this tape if you will so that we can study it and see okay where are we in earth's history according to the tape what mistakes do we need to avoid and what lessons can we learn to help us accomplish what God needs us to accomplish and so that's what we're going to be doing uh tonight we're going to be looking at the tape good well some of the churches nowadays say the Old Testament's just you don't need it anymore and they just use the New Testament so they're going to be missing quite a It sounds like if so you want to make sure all scripture was given for by inspiration.

So and it's to be studied. So tonight we we're excited for you to take us through this. Amen. Amen. I want to say something to that as well. you know, um, uh, I was not always a Christian. Mhm. And, uh, I didn't always believe in the Bible, but when I, uh, when I became a Christian and when I started studying the word of God, um, I I have found that there is such a wonderful harmony in the word of God that it has solidified my faith in Christ. Mhm. Uh I think that as we look at the word and we see and we're going to see some of these things tonight, you're going to see that these things were not mistakes.

These things were I have a term divine design. Okay, I love that term because you know some things you look in the scripture, you're like, "Nah, that can't be coincidence. That cannot be coincidence." And when you begin to see these things pop up over and over again, you know that there had to be a divine hand behind the word of God. All right. And that's what we're going to see. Praise the Lord. We're looking forward to that. I think you have a free offer. We do. This past camp meeting, Danny, you gave us such a an inspirational sermon that this is the free offer and it is um the divine worship service from 3ABN's fall camp meeting.

You can get this by calling us at 618-627-4651 or email us at free offer 3abn.tv TV and you will get a copy of this sermon and it is really inspiring. I hope my uh vocal surgeon is not listening right now or gets this free offer because it's like 70 some minutes. It's longer than it should be. I was supposed to do you know not speak very much. I'm still kind of on vocal rest. So for everybody but uh my doctor also off everybody else you can get one of these for free and that's right. And uh so anyway, yeah, we're happy to send this out to you.

You can call us or you can email us. It'll be on the screen. And uh we appreciate again your love and your prayers and financial support. So I think right now we're ready to hit the word of God, right? Oh yes. And uh let's take us through this study. All right. So uh let's begin with 1 Corinthians chap 10 and uh I'm going to read verses 1-6. Okay. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 1-6. And the Bible says, uh, moreover, brethren, I would not that you should be ignorant, how that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and did all eat the same spiritual meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink.

For they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. But with many of them, God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things were our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. And let's jump down to verse 11. And it says, "Now all these things happen unto them for in samples and they are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come." M so the the history of Old Testament Israel has special significance for those who are alive particularly at the end of time.

Okay. Okay. Um what Paul is telling us is that the Old Testament is a pattern and as we understand that pattern we begin to see we begin to find object lessons that help us once again to learn what we need to know for the end of time. I believe that these patterns show us, for example, who God's people are. It shows us the the truthfulness of the word of God. It admonishes us and it warns us as well. Listen, this is the mistake ancient Israel made. Don't make this same mistake. It's not that these are going to happen.

You know, it's not like a prophecy saying this is what's going to be. Uh it's simply saying look, these are the mistakes that they made. And admonition means that there is you know a good possibility that by learning from those mistakes we won't repeat the same mistakes. So that's the goal uh you know of these stories helping us to see this is what God wants us to do. So as we go to the Old Testament we begin to you know look for these patterns and they are so amazing because you know they pop out in places that you don't expect.

So for example um when you look at the old testament there were four offices in the old testament okay there were the priest the office of the priest there was the office of the king there was the office of the prophet and there was the office of the judge those are the four prophets kings judges priests well if you look at how they are patterned in the old testament or revealed in the old testament they come in in in an The first is the prophet. Okay, the office of prophets. So Noah was a prophet.

Um, you know, uh, Joseph prophesied. Uh, you have all these prophets that are the emphasis in the book of Genesis. When you get to Exodus, you're introduced to the priesthood. Okay? M uh after Exodus, you you you go down to the book of um to the judges where you're introduced to the judges. And then the last office you have are the kings. Okay. So the order is prophet, priest, judge, king. King. If you look at that pattern, you you actually see the very pattern of the life and ministry of Christ.

Wow. Wow. But when he came came as a prophet, okay, he died, was buried, resurrected, ascended as our high priest, okay? Prophet priest and then uh he would move into a stage of judgment. Okay, before the second coming where he returns as king of kings. Okay, lord of lords, right? Prophet, priest, judge, kings. So what that means is as we look at these different offices, prophets, the prophets were designed, the prophets in essence were to show reveal the ministry of Christ as a prophet. The priests reveal the ministry of Christ as a priest.

The judges reveal the ministry of Christ as a judge. And the kings were to reveal the ministry of Christ as king of kings and lord of lords. By the way, the kings did miserably. The kings did not do so well. Mhm. Uh, you know, you had, you know, some false prophets. Uh, you know, a a rare bad priest, uh, Adab, I mean, Naab and Anahu. Um, you had, uh, you know, some bad judges, but you had a lot of bad kings. I mean, it was just like the kings just kept messing up, right? Yeah. So I believe one of the reasons is because um the king is the highest office that God holds.

And uh you know it was they weren't even supposed to have kings in the first place, right? But but nonetheless, God says if you desire kings, if those kings submit to my will, that'll be a good thing. If they don't submit to my will, that'll be a bad thing. We're going to come back to that a little bit later, but that's just beginning to show patterns. Oh wow, there's a pattern. We just saw one. it reflects the life of Christ. Um, as far as patterns regarding, you know, end time events, so one of the one of the perhaps the most end time event uh oriented book in the Old Testament is the book of Daniel and as Seventh Day Adventists, we love the book of Daniel, right?

But there, you know, there there's something in in the book of Daniel, particularly in the first six chapters, that reveal a pattern that a lot of people are unaware of. So, let's talk about that. The book of Daniel, uh, chapter 1. Um, and I'm I'm going to maybe put you on the spot here, but just see, do you know what's in Daniel chapter 1? You know, that's the story of the the Hebrew boys. Yeah. The Hebrew boys not eating the meat and all that. wine. Absolutely. So, you know, they're they're captured and then uh the king gives them uh meat and wine and they're like, "We're not, you know, we're not doing that, right?"

Um so, we know that story and very often we read the story on the surface, but what I'm discovering in the Bible is that there's an end time application to so many of this, in fact, to the whole Old Testament. M. So what happens? Uh Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they avoid the king's meat. Now, what nation are they in? Babylon. Babylon. So they avoid the meat and the wine. Oh. Of Babylon. All right. Ah, that's interesting. Because at the end of time, there's going to be a group of people who do what?

Avoid the wine of Babylon. Okay. Yeah. That's Daniel 1. Daniel 2. Daniel 2, those who avoided the wine of Babylon are given special prophetic insight. Come on. Come on. Come on. And they preach a message, okay, to Babylon, right? So, wow, man. There's a parallel. Those who avoid the wine of Babylon at the end of time and in the end time are going to be the ones that are blessed with prophetic insight. Oh wow. To preach a message to Babylon. What is that message? Hey, Babylon's going to fall. Yeah.

Come out and hurt my people. What? How dare you say that to me? Yeah, but it's the truth. Yeah. Babylon, your kingdom is going to fall. Okay. So, that's Daniel chapter 2. What happens in Daniel chapter 3? An image is set up. Uhoh. Wait a minute. My kingdom is not going to fall. I'm setting up an image. And whoever doesn't bow down, uhoh, is going to be persecuted. Oh, well, wait a minute. I'm seeing a pattern here. Those who avoid the wine of Babylon uh are going to preach an end time message that Babylon has fallen.

As a result, Babylon is going to set up an image and command that all bow down. Command worship. Wow. Right. That's just in the first three chapters. Okay. Yeah. Chapter four. Wow. That chapter is about Nebuchadnezzar's dream where that tree reaches up into the heavens and uh Daniel says it's your pride, right? Cut off your sins. Well, guess what happens in Daniel? Basically, in Daniel chapter 4, Babylon's sins have reached unto heaven. Okay? and when her sins have reached unto heaven. So look, there's going to be end time people who avoid the wine of Babylon who as a result of that are blessed with a end time message.

They preach the message that Babylon will fall. Babylon says that's not going to happen. They're going to set up an image. When they do that, their sins will have reached unto heaven and as a result, Babylon will fall. This is exactly what happens in Daniel chapter 5. Babylon falls. The writing is on the wall. Your kingdom is numbered and it is finished. Your kingdom is numbered and it is finished. What happens in Daniel chapter 6 is that Daniel is thrown into the lion's den. He should be dead but he escapes death.

Those who avoid, in other words, let's put it together. Those who avoid the wine of Babylon at the end of time will preach an end time message. The end time message is that Babylon will fall. Babylon is rejects the message. They're going to set up an image. Whoever doesn't bow down um will be persecuted. But when they do that, their sins will have reached onto heaven. Babylon will fall and those who are sentenced to death will escape death. Wow. Incredible, right? Beautiful, right? So, wo, I've been studying the book of Daniel all this time, and I just jumped to Daniel chapter 7, 8, 9, and 10 to look at end time events.

But you're telling me that we have a pattern. We have a tape. Yeah. from from one from 1 to six. Cuz you know what we usually do is that we we skip one through six. Oh, those are the stories. You got to get to the prophecy. Yeah. But the stories prepare the way for the prophecies. Okay. Right. So again, we're just kind of laying the foundation and saying, "Okay, so when I look at these stories, I'm supposed to be looking at patterns of the church at the end of time." Now, we're going to find that this is true even in the New Testament.

So, let's go to the New Testament and we're going to um we're going to go through the life of Christ. Okay. Now, now this is really really to me it's amazing because you know the Old Testament church was really like a pattern or a type of Christ. Mhm. You know, he is is uh the Old Testament church is Israel. And if you remember um Israel was called out of Egypt. Okay. When Jesus was a baby, he was sent into Egypt. You know, his father took him into Egypt. And so it says so that it would be fulfilled out of Egypt.

Okay? Have I called my son. Remember when Egypt was called out, God told Moses to tell Pharaoh, "Let my son go." He's talking about the nation of Israel. "Let my son go that he may worship me in the wilderness." Right? Okay. So, Old Testament Israel is a type of Jesus Christ, but Jesus Christ himself is a type. Okay, now don't throw the stone. Hold on a second, pastor. What did you just say? Jesus can't be a type. He's in the New Testament. But watch this. Jesus, his he is the body the body of the the church makes up the body of Christ.

Does that make sense? Mhm. The church is the body of Christ. So if the church is the body of Christ, we think about that. The body of Christ, right? As little stones, right? We make up the the whole church. We make up the building. But the building is the body of Christ. Meaning we are to reflect the image of Christ. So whatever the body of Christ does, the literal body of Christ does would be a foreshadow of the body of the church. Okay? So here's what I mean. Um Jesus of course was born. Okay.

Came as a man, was born. Well, if we were to make a parallel to the church, we would have the the birth of the church. Okay. Sounds okay. Well, of course, the church is is born. Jesus was born. Okay. Is that really a coincidence? Well, wait a minute. Jesus was baptized. Now, a lot of people when they hear the word church, they think of Catholic church, right? So, are we talking about we're talking about the New Testament church. So before even any so-called denomination, we're talking about the birth of the New Testament church, right?

Um day of Pentecost. Um the church was baptized just as Christ was baptized. So birth of the church, the church is I mean birth of Christ, he is baptized. Birth of the church, the church is baptized. Okay. So that's all Matthew chapter 1 and Matthew chapter 2. In Matthew chapter and Matthew chapter 3. Okay. In Matthew chapter 4, after the baptism of Christ, he enters into the wilderness. The wilderness. The wilderness. The wilderness. Oh, well, wait a minute now. Did the church follow suit? Did the church after its baptism go into the wilderness?

Wilderness. Absolutely. Mhm. Revelation 12, the woman, the church is in the wilderness for 1260 years, bringing us to the year 1798. Prophetically speaking, 538 to 1798, 1260 years, the dark ages, right? Mhm. So Christ goes into the into the wilderness where he is in conflict with Satan just as the church goes into the wilderness where she is in conflict with Satan. Okay. All right. When Christ comes out of the wilderness in Matthew chapter 4, the first thing he does is he cleanses the temple. Okay.

After 1798, right, what do you have? You have the prophetic teaching or the teaching of the cleansing of the sanctuary, right? When Jesus cleanses the temple in Matthew 4, um the Bible tells us that the Jews said to him, "We've been building this temple 40 and six years. Will you raise it up again in three days?" Cuz he said to them, "Destroy this temple. I'll raise it in three days." So they actually quote that number 46 years. We've been building this temple. Mhm. If you take the time, don't do that to me.

Don't take 1798 and that 46 years and come up with 1844. Now you're not going to do that or you look at it. I know. I know. I think he is. I think he is. I think he is too. Yeah. That's deep. Isn't that deep? Coincidence? No. No. No. No. No. What what what the Bible is showing us is that Whoa. As we watch the life of Christ, he's actually foreshadowing the history of the church. Wow. Wow. Right. Mhm. After he after he does this, he begins his preaching, teaching, and healing work. M what is the church doing?

Yeah. What's the church to be doing after 1844? What is she doing? Preaching, teaching, and healing. Absolutely. Now, within that time period, a death sentence is put upon Christ for one reason specifically, because of his observance of the Sabbath. M now I don't know if you realize that but the first time in in the book of Matthew the first time that they're like he needs to die is when he healed on the Sabbath. So in other words a death sentence is issued over the issue of the Sabbath. Oh he must die.

Right. Because not the fact that he was a church whatever but healing on the Sabbath. That's right. They said so it's a Sabbath issue Sabbath is and you Yeah. Okay. Okay. Towards the end of his life, he's transfigured, which would point us to this was preparing him for the time of trouble. Okay. He was about to go through. Yeah. The end time church will receive the outpouring of the latter rain in preparation for the time of trouble that they're going to go through. Okay. Christ cleanses the temple one last time and declares uh this apostate people as desolate.

Your temple's left unto you desolate. Just as at the end of time, Babylon will be declared desolate. Christ goes through this time of trouble. He dies, is buried, is resurrected. God's people at the end of time, who go through the time of trouble, many who have died in the Lord, all who have died in the Lord, who have been buried in Christ, will be resurrected, okay, and ascend to heaven. Okay? Whoa. The pattern of the life of Christ is really a pattern of the church. So looking at that I can we can now say okay so right now we are we are before right uh the death burial and resurrection stage right but we are after the cleansing of the temple.

Uh you see what I'm saying? We can now and now as we look at Christ's ministry, we could probably learn some lessons of how we ought to be preaching, teaching, and healing. Okay? Right. Yeah. We're watching the tape. And we're going, okay. Okay. So, as as you know, end time Christians, this is where we are. A decree is soon coming up that says, you know, those who honor the Sabbath are going to be punished. M so when we get to that time we know exactly where we are we know what we know what's coming right we know that you know our prong of the Holy Spirit we know that a time of trouble in other words as we study the parallels as we study the tape we can see this is where we are in history now what lessons can now I'm reading the story looking for the end time application and you're you're specifically talking too about the seventh avenous church absolutely that's why I said earlier a lot of folk if you just take out the word church they always assume, well, the Catholic Church was first, but this is not what we're talking about at all right here.

Absolutely. This is actually right 7th Adventist Church that we can see all of this. That's right. You know, and and so when I say that the studying the the the patterns of the Bible, God is showing who his end time people are in multiple ways. Okay? Not just through the prophecies of Daniel 7 8 9 10 11 12 not just through Revelation, the book of Revelation, but he show you can see it in the book of Matthew who are his end time people. They're the ones that are reflecting the movements of Christ when he was on earth.

Mhm. Right. Yeah. Not to be mistaken for everybody who carries a certain name will be that. Exactly. There's a church within a church. You might say because we're going to come to that. Okay. See, this is good news right now. As Adventists, we're like, "Oh, yeah." But some not so good news is coming soon because we're going to be looking at the history of ancient Israel, and we're going to see, whoa, to a large degree as Adventists, we are Satan is seeking to lead us to repeat verbatim the history of Adventists, the history of of Israel.

All right. So, let's look at this. Let's go now to the book of Revelation. Okay? And uh in the book of revelation, we have seven churches. Okay, these seven churches represent the different stages of the Christian church in the New Testament. And so I'm just going to do this from memory. We're not, you know, just for the sake of time, right? The seven churches are uh Ephesus followed by Smyrna, Pergamus, Thotyra, Sardis, Philadelphia, and then Leodysa. Mhm. Okay. The seven churches represent seven periods of time or stages of the stages of the church from the New Testament down to the second coming.

So, uh, Ephesus was a church that started out on fire. You know, and I'm just summarizing this, you know, we're just looking at the big picture. Ephesus started on fire. Smyrna was the persecuted church. They the ones that went through persecution, okay? Heavy persecution, ridicule, mocking, you know, those kind of things. Mhm. Um, Pergamus was the church in which compromise was introduced. This is where Constantine um was, you know, basically extended his hand to the church and the church said, "Yeah, we we want a king."

It's basically what they said. Okay, we want a king. They they rejected their high priest Jesus Christ for a king named Constantine. We want your protection. Okay. Thotyra is the church in which you see um this mystery Babylon power come on on the scene right dominating the people of God because of their rebellion. Okay. Now Sardis represented those who were escaping the beginning of the Protestant Reformation. Those who were coming out of the reformation and beginning to you know uh uh um uh put into effect the reformation.

Okay. um reforming what had been altered during the dark ages. Okay. Um the church of Philadelphia represents those that finished the reformation. Okay. Which brings us down to the Adventist movement. Okay. All right. And and then the final church, Leodysia, is the church that will be there for the second coming of Christ. Okay. So these are and you know again it's the remnant church. Yes. All right. Okay. So these are the seven stages of the New Testament church. But just recently, you know, and I love this is the reason I love studying the word of God because the dimensions of the word of God just keep going deeper and deeper and deeper.

And so just recently, I was studying this this prophecy and I'm like, wait a minute, the history of the New Testament church is really a reflection of the history of God's Old Testament people. M it's mind-blowing. So, let's go through it again. God's people begin in the book of Genesis. Mhm. There's a purity with the beginning of God's people. Adam was created, you know, pure, true. But guess what? Adam love just like the church of Ephesus, that started out pure but lost their first love, right?

So, in Genesis, you have the beginning of mankind starting out pure but losing their first love. sin enters. Well, guess what book is after? Genesis. It's Exodus. And guess what happens in Exodus? The people of God are persecuted. Wow, man. That reminds me of Smyrna, the persecuted church, okay, so they they get eventually get out of persecution and they enter into the promised land. Brings us to the book of 1 Samuel. What happens in 1 Samuel? We want a king. Uhoh. Wait, wait, wait. But what about your priest?

We don't we want a king. Oh, whoa, wait a minute. Mhm. So, this is where compromise begins to come into Israel. Man, that reminds me of the church of Pergamus because that's exactly what happened in Pergamus. Well, guess what happened as a result of the compromise in 1 and 2 Samuel? Israel ends up going into captivity to a power named Babylon. Wow. What in the world? Yeah. Are you serious? Babylon. That that's church number four, Thyra, which introduced us to this woman named Jezebel, mystery Babylon.

Church number five was Sardis, right? The those escaping and beginning of the Reformation. Well, guess what? After Chronicles uh and Kings, you had the book of Ezra. Ezra began the reformation coming out of Babylon. and they begin rebuilding the temple, begin doing the work God had called them to do. But it was Nehemiah who comes along and finishes the work. Wow. And from that point on, guess what? Israel is just waiting for the first coming of the Lord. Okay. All right. What is their condition when Jesus arrives?

Oh, boy. They are lukewarm. Yeah. Leodia, sleep. Yeah. Neither hot nor cold. Mhm. So when we look at this history of the Old Testament and we realize, wo, the book of Revelation, the seven churches parallels that history, we come to a to a really sobering uh conclusion that who if we are not careful, God's end time church can be found as lukewarm as Israel was at the first coming of Christ. Mhm. We can be caught just as offguard at the second coming of Christ by making the same mistakes Israel made regarding the first coming of Christ.

Right? So now again, we just watch the tape, right? And God has given us a tape to say, listen, don't make the same mistake that Old Testament Israel made. M now, now here's what here's where it gets even more interesting because the seven churches are a reflection of the seven stages of the church. It's one church, but seven different stages of the church. And this is what began studying this really. I can't even tell you how short ago I began studying this. This is not, you know, this is this is I was like, "Yeah, I think this is I need to share this."

The seven stages of of the of the church in a way parallel the seven seven stages within God's end time movement. In other words, hey, when we started, guess how we started? Started on fire movement. Yeah. Yeah. We Ephesus. We were Ephesus, man. Ephesus, you know, excited preaching pre-1844, preaching this message, just excited about the what we were what we were understanding as a people. And then, amazingly enough, we go through this Smyrna stage, persecuted, mocked. Oh yeah, you guys believed what?

That Jesus was coming when? Haha. Right. newspaper articles being written up about how we were crazy and you know ascension robes and all kinds of mocking because of what we believed. Okay. But God's movement, God's church kept going on, right? But here's where we enter into Pergamus compromise. Oh, whoa. So, you're telling me that that but we're God's end time church. You know, that's not going to happen to us. Yeah. This is exactly what Satan wants to happen to you. It's like God is saying, "Guys, watch the tape.

Don't allow compromise to come into the church. Don't allow it. Don't allow it." Right? Watching the tape helps us to realize, well, in the fourth church, apostasy. Well, guess what? Wow. Do we see apostasies coming into God's end time movement? I mean just just think back to for example this is Adventist history but think back to Kellogg you know the you know what what was called the alpha of apostasy right and think about you know uh certain characters or certain people who were one time in the church but then they apostasize and and you know start you know speaking against the church or even w within the church but teaching things that are uh right we're in that stage right now we're there right now so guess What?

Guess what, man? Guess where I want to be? Church number five, the beginning of the of a reformation. I think we've seen that happen. There are people within God's movement who are like, you know, hey, where are we going as a church? We need to we need to have reformation and revival. And that beginning, you know, we've seen that beginning, but guess what? We need to get to Philadelphia because Philadelphia is what completes the Reformation, right? and what prepares us to be waiting in a right state of mind for the second coming of Christ.

In other words, God is trying to, you know, we've gone through our Ephesus stage, we've gone through our Smyrna, we're going through a pergamus, we're going through a side thigh tyra where different, you know, we got to be careful in the church. This is not saying the church is an apostasy. It's saying that there is apostasy inside the church. Right. That's right. So, so yeah, we've got to be careful about what we listen to and what we hear and those kind of things, but ultimately God is like, "Look, I this is what Satan's trying to do.

I want you to finish the Reformation." Mhm. Philadelphia does that. But guess what the word Philadelphia means? Brotherly love. Love. Oh, wait a minute. You mean in order to finish the Reformation, we have to have brotherly love. Yeah. But you know what? I can't love that brother right there. I mean, we're in the same church, but no, I can't love him. Why? Because he believes this, and as long as he believes that, I can't love him. You see what I'm saying? I can't love that one because, you know, we differ on this thing here, or we differ on that thing there.

But the key to us finishing the work is brotherly love. And I'm going to get we're going to go f I'm kind of still setting the foundation for where we're going because we're going to go back to the Old Testament and see something. Absolutely mind-blowing. The deception um is great within the church because you think about it because you of course the deception is you don't know it, right? But when we see other churches or other beliefs or things that are obvious, we say, "Oh, we have the truth."

Yeah. Oh, well, I know better than that. Oh, how could he believe this? Well, how could he believe that? Well, I believe this, this, and the other, so I'm okay now. I I've got it, you know, but then all of a sudden you say something I don't like. Well, you know what? I've heard, you know, and then you with me, but we still say, well, we're inside this, so we're okay because of 1, two, three, four, five, and we don't really see the deception. How of all the churches on earth, who would the devil want to be the most confused?

Yes. Who does he want to stop the the the gospel? Stop and go. Yes. Devil says stop and the Lord says go. So he's going to work extremely hard within this church. And one of the things is as you mentioned is the love getting to that point that we can love one another the way that we should. And I shared this a little while ago uh at the camp meeting but I shared that I learned that uh brother in the church had a different meaning from brother in the world. Good. That's very good. Yeah. When I in the world, you know, I had my friends and we called each other brother.

That was it. It was brother. It was do or die together. It was, you know, some say ride or die. It was brother. Right. In the unfortunately in the church, brother can mean enemy. Brother is a very loose term and we use that term Philadelphia brotherly love unless we understand unless we come to a place where we can actually have that brotherly love and I'm telling you that is one of the things that is eating at the foundation of God's movement is this lack of love one for another. So if I see you in error, instead of coming to you and saying, "Hey brother, hey brother, you know what?

You're my brother and I don't want people saying bad stuff about you. So man, I'm going to come to you and say, "Look, you don't want to say this, man, because that might, you know, mess you up." No, no, no. I'm going to go to someone else and be like, you know what I heard brother so and so say, "Brother, I'm telling you, man, watch out for that, brother." Yeah. Really? If that was my actual brother, if that was my blood brother, would I go to someone and say, "You know what I heard my brother say?"

Yeah. Right. My brother said, "So, you better watch out for him." No. You know why? Because I really think he's my brother. And as my brother, I'm going to do everything I can to protect him even when he's doing wrong. I'm be like, you know what? Uh and and I'm going to tell you, I mean, you know, I've been guilty of that. You know what I'm saying? as a minister and the reason I can I can say that and not you know like I'm not going to say is because I just watched the tape and in watching the tape I've just been like whoa have I been guilty of this Lord have I been doing this have I you know it for my ministry sake called out you know certain people like yeah watch out for this one or watch out for those people you know it in in in the name of defending the truth instead of doing what a brother would do and say, "Hey, man, let me let me call this brother up and say, hey, you know, let's let's look at this together."

So, when we begin to understand, when we look at the tape and see, wait a minute, man, according to this pattern, until we get brotherly love, we're not even ready yet for the second coming of Christ, then it begins to really open up. Yeah, I'm watching the tape, man, and here's where we made a mistake. And God is showing us the tape so that we don't make that mistake. Mhm. All right. So, now we get into the All right, let's do it. Let's do it. So, now we're going to go back to the Old Testament.

I know we're I think we're Okay, we're going to go back to the Old Testament. We're going to see So, we're going to now look at the entire Old Testament. We're going to see that the entire Old Testament is a reflection of God's end time movement. So, we're going to break the Old Testament up into three parts. We're going to go with Genesis to Ruth as part one. Okay. Go from 1 Samuel to 2 Chronicles as part two. And I'm going to go to Ezra to uh the book of Malachi as part three. So let's see. Book of Genesis.

Um what is it about from Genesis to Ruth? It is really about the growth of God's people. Okay. how they multiplied um how they became a numerous group. Well, if I look at that and say, hm, Genesis, the Genesis of God's movement, how they grew, how they multiplied, um they were a movement that was heavily priestled. Okay, that's good. uh they were itinerant preachers moving around you know and and the the the the God's people grew and multiplied and multiplied multiplied and you always see you know you get to the book end of book of Genesis they multiplied exceedingly you get to the book of Exodus they multiplied when persecuted they multiplied even more man you know what that kind of reminds me of the beginning of God's advent movement you know they multiplied they grew they weren't they weren't fully organized, you know, as a as a denomination, but man, they they grew.

They multiplied. Itinerant preachers, you know, moving around. It was it was they were together, but it was kind of like a loose, you know, what what have you. But nonetheless, they grew. God's people grows. Uh in the book of Leviticus, they are organized as an official movement, but they're heavily priestled. Their leaders are priests. They're ministers, spiritual, spiritual, right? Um but then we get to 1 Samuel and in 1 Samuel something happens in 1 Samuel um they ask for a king there's an organizational change uh the organizational change I I like to say this way and you know those watching will understand um the general conference uh is is formed the general conference of uh Hebrew Israelites you know they form their conference now it's not a bad Because God says, "Listen, you know, okay, you guys want to move to a king-based uh uh uh system.

If your kings submit to me, then it'll be a good thing. But if your kings don't submit to me, it's going to be a bad thing." Right? So, from 1 Samuel all the way to Chronicles, you have this organization of God's movement, and now they are kings. Okay? Um, and you know what, man, that kind of reminds me of the official organizing of the Adventist church. And now we are, you know, we've got these conferences and general conference and conference presidents and general conference presidents, which is not a bad thing.

It's a good thing as long as God's people and God's leaders stay submitted to the will of God. Right? So now, as I'm looking at this, I'm going, "Whoa! Well, I see something here." Because guess what Satan wanted to happen in Israel, especially in this time? He wanted them to get thrown off track. Mhm. And you know what happens in Israel at this time? Jeroboam and Rahoboam uh uh Reobam is Solomon's son. He after Solomon dies, uh, he comes on the scene and, um, and his father Solomon had really oppressed much of Israel in the building of, you know, of his city.

And what ends up happening is that after his death, the children of Israel come to Raboam and say, "Hey, you know, your father was harsh on us. Can you ease up?" And he's like, "No, I'm not easing up." He begins to exercise kingly power. And as a result of this, 10 of the 12 tribes of Israel split off and go form their own conference. Oh, come on. Now you have division in Israel. Wow, man. As I look at this history and I'm going, wait a minute. Whoa. This is ideal for God's church. Wow. Right? He wants there to be a split in God's church.

And as I look now and I see, you know what, we've got, you know, conservative versus Israel. I mean, I'm sorry, versus conservative versus uh liberal. Um, we have divisions based on race. We have divisions based on what you like versus what you you've got all these divisions within God's church. And it just hit me like, whoa, are we making the same mistake that ancient Israel made? And you know what? God had to humble Israel. He had to One, one side was called Judah. Those were the two tribes. The other side was called Israel, the 10 tribes.

And both were pointing the finger at the other. You're the cause of the separation. No, no, no. You're the cause of the separation. And as I as I sit back and I look and I'm going, I'm watching the tape and my mind is blown. I guess right now my mind is blown. M because is God showing us something? He is. Is God trying to tell us, "My children? Look at what happened in the past. Don't make that same mistake." Is that what he's trying to tell us? Oh, absolutely. No, no doubt in my mind. We've only got about a minute and a half for this first hour, and this is some good stuff, isn't it?

I mean, it really is deep. Some good stuff. And when you look at it to where we are and for those of you within our church, you you know the things that we're looking at. We've had fall counsel and all these things that's you know happening and what direction that people are going. So that's why we need to look back to road map. That's right. We need to look back what happened before. Watch the tape. I like that illustration. Go back and watch the tape and then say, can we learn from this? That's right.

Can we learn from this? Because if we haven't learned from it, we've done no good. You mentioned they will go back and watch the football tape or the basketball tape. If you go back and watch great ball player and you want to say, "Okay, he's doing this. Let's learn how to play defense on Kobe." But if you don't, you just say, "Oh, yeah. Kobe's a good player. Next time he's going to beat you again, right?" Yep. Going to do this. Less we forget. Less we forget. Absolutely. Well, let's uh give the offer one more time.

Then we're going to take a short break and we don't want you to go away because we're going to be back for another hour after this. But uh why don't you give the offer again? Yes, we have the um worship service from camp meeting our fall camp meeting and all you have to do is give us and Danny is speaking and it was really inspirational. All you have to do is give us a call at 618-627-4651 or uh email us at free offer at 3abn.tv. All right, good job. We're going to be back in just a moment. Don't go away.

Welcome back to 3ABN Today live. And again, thank you for joining us. If you're just joining us, you missed a great first hour. So, I'm sure you'll be able to call and they'll tell you how you can get a copy of this or if you got your my SDA box that you can go back and watch it any time that you want. And I'm going to encourage a lot of folk to get this my SDA box, Ivon, because what it does, you hook it up to your television. All you need is the internet and you can go back and get programming on demand.

Yes. and programs like this one time for somebody like my simple mind is not going to get all of this. So I've got to go back several times and you know of course we can still send you the DVDs and if you want to but uh you may want to write us and find out how to get your my SDA box that has all these Adventist channels on them and it gets a great picture. It hooks up to your television instead of your um you know just computer. So, people like to see on their big 70inch screen or whatever they've got, but we encourage you to do it.

We've been having a great time with my co-host here tonight, Dr. Ivon Lewis and Pastor Ivor Meyers. And uh thank you so much. And we've been studying, we've been studying from Genesis to Revelation already, you know, but showing it in a relevance for today. And that's what's so important and I think what God is putting on your heart because so many people and there's actually whole we can call them denominations but whole groups of people that are Christians that say we don't even need the Old Testament or we don't need Daniel Revelation.

My pastor says oh I've had people tell me my pastor says that that has nothing to do with us. We don't know what scary monsters got to do with us today. You know all of these things. So what you're saying is this has been a road map. It's been something we can go back a tape you you set as a game tape watching you know your competition that's playing or what have you to study them that from Genesis to Revelation God has sprinkled that all through. Yes. But we have to study to show ourselves approved.

So all of us aren't doing that but I'm glad you're doing it and we can learn from you. And so we're looking at a church that started out as a a movement and as a people and you're taking us from Genesis literally, you know, through Revelation, but going through the seven churches and finding out that we start out as a movement and then we end up before the worst part is is after we go through persecution and everything, but then we get to a point where we believe we're living now. And I think he said that's called the seventh church, Leadyia.

Yes. So now we've got to decide what do we do because Leadyia is a sleepy church and yet right before Jesus comes some great revival and reformation takes place. That's right. How does it do it? Through people just like him. Yes. Presenting the word of truth and getting it to where the individuals like like us and those of you at home can all of a sudden hit us. Man, yes. This is amazing. And you know what? Anybody who says there's no God, what you're doing every time you take us through even one book of the Bible and show us Jesus in the middle of it, all the comparisons, showing us this, this is design.

I mean, this is amazing that every one of these. Now, it'd be different if you said, you know, these books and this book doesn't apply. But if you look at this book, Yeah. you can see some similarities. But here you're going through the entire Bible and Jesus of course is in the in there. But it's a it's to look back for us and to see where we are today. Yes. And I think what he was saying was we have to learn from the mistakes of those before us. Yes. Lest we fall in the same ditch. That's right.

Absolutely right. Absolutely. Less we fall. So we don't want to do that. That's it. So, what we're going to do, normally we would have another song, but you've got a lot of information that we want you to impart to us today. So, I think we'll go back. You got any questions or comments before we I It's just fascinating to me how divine design, how, as you just said, too, how God just put all of the stuff together on these in these different books. Every book reflects Christ. Every book. Yes. It's to me, that's just amazing because it can't be coincidence.

That's right. Is it coincidence or providence, right? Divine providence. It's divine providence. It's amazing. So, absolutely. This is great. Your your study of the word is such a blessing because like Danny was saying, we can we can learn from what you're teaching us. So, this is great. Some some of the folk will know if you watch from the beginning, I said I couldn't have kept her off this program if I wanted to. She she wanted to be on this program and she's not one who wants to be on television or says, "Oh, I want to be."

But on this one, she's like, "I really would love to be there with Pastor Ivor." So, u Oh, yeah. It's been good, isn't it? Thank you. Yes. Good. Good. For sure. Well, I definitely want to encourage people to, you know, know that, you know, you can go to the word of God yourself and find and find these same things, you know. So, it's not God giving a special gift, you know, to an individual here or an individual there. God wants his people. Yes. You know, to to have he to have access to all of this.

So, you know, if we like just say, "Lord, show me and I'm going to get into the word of God and and Lord, I need you to open my eyes." This is this is something that he these p he wants all of us to watch the tape, right? So, there are going to be things on the tape that I don't see that someone else is going to see. So, I'm sharing what I've seen, you know, that that others may not have seen. But that's the beautiful thing about coming together. when we come together to watch the tape. I mean, just imagine if the whole church was like, "The tape, let's go watch the tape and begin to go back and go through each one of these books."

And now we're watching the tape specifically for those upon whom the ends of the world are come. What lessons can we learn from watching the tape? But you're showing us how many layers there are like this. Most of us or a lot of Christians, we read this. Well, Adventists, you I hate to use the word, we pride ourselves, but we figure that we're people of the word. So, we say this is surface reading, but we're gone to a little deeper level, right? Well, now we're just going several more. I didn't know there was this many dimensions, you know, here.

So, that's really what you're helping because of your study. Then you're getting to some some other dimensions that most of us are missing. So, we're we're looking forward to this. And it's rich. Isn't it rich? You just want to shout. I might shout. If I shout, just go ahead. I'll shout with you. Okay. Good. Good. All right. So, um, we left off talking about the three different stages of of the movement of Israel. Um, the first stage, Genesis to Ruth, u talks about the growth. There you see the um the God's people multiplying.

They're growing in number. um they are organized but it's priestled. Okay. Then you see this transition into a more kingly uh uh king-based organization. And God says, "Okay, uh that's what you want. If your kings obey me, things will will go good. If not, things will not go so good." And the interesting thing that happens with Israel, which I believe God is trying to show us, I don't want you to make the same mistake, is this. You don't see anything about growth in 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles.

It's all internal, you know, stuff, writing, bureaucracy, policy, you know, this kind of stuff. Whereas before it was, you know, man, the promises that we're going to be a a great seed that you can't count them for the number of stars, the the the grains of sand, it was very heavy uh growth focused. When when they, you know, when we move into first and second Samuel and K, you didn't care what the folk around you thought. That's right. Whether was Noah there, I mean, going against all the odds, you know, and saying, I don't really I'm not going to worry about the politics.

I don't worry about what I'm, you know, what's going to happen. So when people were really of a mind say this is what's happening, this is the truth. I'm going to give that truth. Absolutely. So suddenly now you're saying we're getting to this. So it's policy. It's it's infighting. Israel versus Judah. What side are you on? You you you Judah. Are you Israel? And we have this in we have these splits going on inside the church. And and what happens is God is trying to show us because guess what the end result of the of these splits were?

Babylon overtook Judah and Assyria overtook Now I'm looking at this and I'm like, well God, you can't be saying that this is what's going to happen to your church. You can't be saying that. And I don't believe he's saying that. I believe what God is showing us is listen, this is Satan's goal for you. Satan's goal is to have you overcome by Babylon, mystery Babylon. But I'm showing you the tape so that you don't make the same mistakes Israel made. Please, church. Don't war against one another. Don't do things that will lead to division.

M don't do things that are going to cause separation among the brethren whether it be through race or anything else some issue some whatever now let me say this I don't I don't believe in uh unity for the sake of unity right I mean we have to be careful not to unify just to unify and you know okay forget about error so that's not what I'm saying no but what I'm saying is that when we realize who you know we may be more willing to put down our battle swords if we realize, you know what, the issue here isn't even about the sword, the issue is about division.

You know, if I'm looking at what can we do at all at, you know, what can we do to preserve unity in truth, right? But if we if we don't look at the tape, if we don't realize that this is one of Satan's devices, he's actually seeking to do this. We can be going along thinking, "Yeah, we're the remnant. We're the remnant. We're the remnant." And not even realize that we're playing right into the hands of exactly what ancient Israel did. Absolutely. And and you know, controversy controversy is not a bad thing.

There's a great controversy going on between good and evil. It's just which side of the controversy are you on? Exactly. And there are people willing to compromise because they say, "Well, we don't want this controversy, so maybe when this person's going way over here, you're like, well, let's just kind of, you know, I don't want to fight about everything. I don't want to do." But really, all we're doing is standing for truth. Yeah. My uncle, he was come from, we'll call it old time religion, but if if I can use that term, my uncle Olan, but he used to say when people in the church were starting to go a direction away from the foundational doctrinal beliefs, but yet still wanted to be in it, he would say, "Well, if you don't love it, leave it."

I mean, why bring all of this in the church and try to confuse everybody and try to get you some going here, some going there, and bring all of this unnecessary controversy? Here's what the Bible says. here's what we believe as a church and so if you don't like that why don't you go start your own church you know but people don't do that because we want the church to be like us other than us being when I say the church I'm talking about a church that follows the commandments and keeps the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.

Yeah. There's a story in the Old Testament. It's a story of Solomon and the two women that came before him. Do you remember that story? two women and they bring forth this baby and you know in a in we look at this these two women are coming before Solomon for judgment and in in it from my studies I've seen that these two women and Solomon this whole story is a reflection of two times two types of Christians who both claim to have Jesus the two women claim that the child was theirs a male child right was theirs just as their two type of Christians who claim that Jesus belongs to them, but one is not telling the truth.

One's telling the truth, the other isn't. And they're both standing before the king saying, "Yeah, the child is mine." No, no, no. The child is mine. One of them is acting so good that Solomon, in all his wisdom, can't even discern between the two. So, you know what he does? He says, "Bring me a sword." "Bring me a sword." It's the word of God. There you go. Oh, it's the word of God that reveals who the true followers are versus the false followers. Who really has Jesus? Bring me a sword. And when Solomon says, he Solomon then says, "Divide the child.

That's how we're going to solve the problem. Divide the child." The true mother was like, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Don't divide the child. Give it to her." Yeah. The false mother, divide the child. Yeah. Yeah. Divide the child. The The false Christian is content with dividing the church. That's because That's right. That's a That's very very good. They're content with it. And and and he wasn't con confused because he was looking at principle. That's right. And he was looking at what we call this love.

And he saw the loved he saw who loved. It's a principle of love versus the one who is content in saying let's rip the church, let's cut the church. So the truth, the word of truth being divided but not in the baby. So he he recognized the the the love and said this woman's love for this son, the true woman was willing willing to submit herself, right, and say, "Look, look, I know what I want, but forget it. I'd rather the body remain united. Oh, come on. Yes. Right. Yeah. I'd rather the body remain united.

And she was she was willing to sacrifice herself. Okay. So, again, back to this story of, you know, 1 Samuel, 2 uh 1, 2 Samuel, Chronicles, Kings, this division is going on, this war is going on, this infighting. And I believe that God is showing us the tape because he's like, "Guys, I want you to look at where you are right now. Mhm. I want you to look at what's going on. I want you to watch the tape and I want you to see where this is headed if you don't turn around. Where this very well could be headed if you don't turn around.

But I just praise God that you know the church may appear as it is about to fall, but it does not. Amen. You know what I'm saying? So I know that the end story is not going to be the destruction of the church. Okay? Because the church the church is the people. people who's willing to stand up absolutely for the cause of God. Absolutely. Willing to give their lives unto death if necessary. Absolutely. And that's who really makes up the church. Yeah. Is the people. It's not the buildings, right? We There's greater buildings than than our general conference building, but sure it's not the buildings.

Yeah. Not even necessarily all the administrators, not the churches, but it's it's the people. It's the people, you know. So God has a movement. He has an end time movement. He's showing us, listen, Satan, because by the way, who was the king they selected? Saul. Saul. They selected Saul. Saul was anointed but then turned against God. Right. I don't know if that rings any bells to you. He was the anointed one. Yeah. That started out serving God but then turned against him. Well, guess what? There's another anointed one that started out serving God but turned against him.

And that anointed former anointed one wants to rule over Israel. He wants to rule over God's people. And so the question is who who are we going to follow? Because following that Saul, right, is going to ultimately lead to division. So here's what happens. Okay, so what happens after Chronicles? What happens after uh after that second section where they go into captivity, Judah into Babylon, Israel, also known as Ephraim goes into um uh is captured by Assyria. Well, they spend, you know, Judah spends 70 years in captivity, right?

And then the books of Ezra all the way through, you know, Nehemiah then focus on God's people returning and them building the temple. Their focus had now shifted. We have a temple to build. We have a work to finish. Mhm. And what's interesting is that when they came out of captivity, the distinction between Israel and Judah was gone. There was no more distinction between Israel and Judah. It was just Israel again. And when they united, guess what they did? They finished the temple. They finished the work.

So, as I'm studying this, I'm going, "Oh, wait a minute." So, as we watch the tape, if we can avoid that Babylon part, right, and just kind of skip over that because that's where they made the mistake. All right, we watch the tape. Yeah, that's where Satan's trying to get us to go right now. He's trying to get us divide. He's trying to bring, you know, apostasy. He's trying to bring infighting. He's trying to get us to focus more on policy than prophecy, right? He's trying to get us to do these things.

Oh, if we can just skip that and go right to uniting so that we can finish the work, ah, then we'll be ready for the second coming of Christ just as that is what prepared Israel for the first coming. Absolutely. And that that's why I tell people the church is and some people say, well, it's disrespectful or maybe it's I'm pointing fingers. I say the church is not made up of our general conference. We can't say Elder Wilson on down that well this is the church. The church is the people. What I say is no disrespect to them.

But it helps you focus on yourself because now if I don't like something that happens at general conference I'm over here. Can you believe what they doing? They're doing this and I they're not even doing this up there. So what it does it's an excuse for people to shift the blame off of themsel and criticize others. So I say it's up to us. We're the church. So you can't put the blame if something's not going well on your general conference leaders or your conference president or anybody else. We have to take it to oursel.

What are we doing right with this? Because we're part of this and it's up to us to keep the unity within the church without the compromise. Absolutely. But I think we've already seen that if we stand up for truth, there's a persecution that comes. But it's who is able to stand during that? who who's going to be left after the persecution. There's wheat and tear in God's church. There's truth and error. You know, these things are going to be there, but God says, "Listen, I'm trying to show you this so that you know, you know what to expect and you know the mistakes to avoid."

And you know, honestly, I I mean, truthfully, I'm just like, Lord, I mean, I was studying this like last week. Yeah. Yeah. All right. This is not something, you know, I've been, you know, what this is like I'm studying and suddenly I'm like, wait a minute. Well, wait a minute. Well, well, wait a minute. And then I'm like, what what what it's it's mind-blowing. So, here's the thing. So, now I know, look, the place that we need to be studying are the books of Ezra, Nehemiah, all those books, you know, Haggi, Zechariah, those books dealing with the rebuilding of the temple.

Now I can be like, "Wait a minute. So there must be instruction in those books as to how God's people finish the work." Okay? You see what I'm saying? I I study if I want to see how the church grew, I'm going to look at Genesis through Ruth, right? Oh, when they were focused on the promise, you will be as a stars, you know, as the star. That's if I want to study man, you know, how can we avoid the deception? How can we avoid this? Whoa, look, that's what we're going through right now. So if we study what happened in 1 and 2 Samuel Chronicles, we can see, oh, that's what God, Satan's trying to do in the church right now.

Ah, okay. Well, how do we avoid that? How do we finish the work? Oh, I'm going to go to Zechariah. I'm going to go to Nehemiah. I'm going to read those books and the and the the lessons I pull from those books will be, oh, that'll help me to see how we finish the work. And you know what? One of the key books is the book of Nehemiah, right? the book of Nehemiah, which again, let me see if I have it in my notes here. This is just let me show you this. Um, Nehemiah, uh, let me see if I have it in my notes because this is hope I put it in here.

All right, so Nehemiah is actually pretty simple in in the story of Nehemiah. Um Nehemiah uh realizes that you know Jerusalem has been laying desolate and he is moved to go repair the temple. But one of the things that he strongly focuses on is the repairing of the breach. Right. Right. Okay. Uh wait a minute. Isaiah 58. Yeah. The repairers Yes. of the breach. Yes. Now, when you read Isaiah 58, it's to me it's um it's it's eyeopening because as a church, I don't know how well we understand what Isaiah 58 is talking about.

So, so let's go there. Isaiah 58 and um we're going to take a look at verse verse one onwards. So, Isaiah 58 and verse one. And the Bible says here, "Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show my people their transgression and the house of Jacob their sins." And it goes on to talk about how, you know, they seek it. You know, they seek my face, but they're not keeping this commandment the way I've asked them to keep it, right? Then he says in verse six, um, verse four, u, behold, you fast for strife and debate.

Wow. What debate? Mhm. You smite the with the fist of wickedness. You shall not fast as you do this day to make your voice to be heard on high. Is it such a fast as I have chosen, a day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head as a bull rush and to spread sackcloth and ashes? Uh verse verse six. Is not this the fast I've chosen to loose the bands of wickedness to undo the heavy burdens and to let the oppressed go free? All right. Verse seven. Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry?

And that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house, and that thou cease the naked, that thou cover him, and hide not thyself from thine own flesh? Then shall thy light break forth. Okay. When I read Isaiah 58:6 and 7, you know what I see? God is saying, um, what are you doing about the poor? What are you doing about those that are being oppressed? Mhm. Mhm. And then I begin to think, wow, are you telling me that God is calling his people to actually be involved in the lives of people in the community, not just preach a message, but actually in a very handson way, minister to the poor, minister to the needy, minister to the oppressed.

Um, it also means spiritually. Absolutely. Spiritually and physically and spiritually and spiritually. But I'm going to focus on that because a lot of times we focus on the spiritually as you know what forget about their actual needs. You know, I'm going to clothe them with the righteousness of Christ, right? You know, meaning I'm not going to actually clothe them. I'm not going to actually And when you look at how our move, how easy is just to say, I'll pray for him. Exactly. I'll pray for you.

When the advent movement began, the advent movement was made up of people who were going into society and ministering to prostitutes. Okay? They actually there was a group of women who would go in the cities and say, "Okay, how can we minister to the prostitutes? They were looking specifically for prostitutes. Mhm. They brought them into their homes, changed their lives, turned their lives around, and this became the foundation of one of the one of our, you know, worldwide ministries in Adventism.

Um, our Adventist founders, many of them were abolitionists. In other words, they weren't just preaching freedom, they were standing up for the rights of the oppressed. Now, when you think about it, you know, I I I look today and I'm like, you know what? as as a church, we're pretty quiet socially. You know, we're just like, "Yeah, you know what? That's of the world. That's of the world. We're going to preach the three angels messages." But what Isaiah 58 is is telling us. And the reason the church grew so rapidly in in the beginning was because guess what?

They were out there actually ministering to the needs of black people. They were ministering to, you know, people that were oppressed, slaves, I should say, slaves. They were ministering to those who were like actually poor. They were doing these things in a very handson way. In other words, the gospel had flesh on it, right? The word became flesh. It wasn't just the word. It didn't just stay up there in heaven and preached to us. It came down and ministered to us and and dwelt among us as one that wanted to minister to our needs and then bade them follow me.

Mhm. So when are we going to realize that you know what in the early church when we were out fighting for the poor fighting for the oppressed we were not fighting with each other. But when we stopped fighting for the poor when we stopped fighting for the oppressed when we stop when we stopped learning how to connect because here's what they did. They connected the three angels messages with the social issue of the day. So hey, you want to know the answer to poverty? The real answer to poverty, the you want to know what can the real answer is found in the everlasting gospel.

The real answer to oppression. So hey, I'm with you, man. I feel you on the oppression. Hey, what can I do to help you? You know, I I I I recognize your pain, your suffering. Oh, by the way, you want to know what the real answer to after I've ministered to you, you want to know what the real answer to to your pain is? Let me show you the three angels messages. And when you do that, guess what? You have an open ear. Absolutely. You see what I'm saying? Because you've ministered to my need. You showed me that you cared about me.

So now, yeah, show me what you have. Yeah. You see what I'm saying? And and and what just like Israel in the in Genesis to Ruth when the focus was winning souls was not winning souls, but you know, multiplication. Oh, yeah. they were growing. When we get to Chronicles, we're fighting with each other. Why? Because we're just about, you know, this is my territory. This is your territory. You know, who's the king? Who who has the right to be the ruler to all these all this infighting because we forgot about the world.

You see what I'm saying? We forgot that our mission was not to set up buildings and more buildings and more buildings, you know? I mean, okay, yeah, that's part of what we do, but our true mission was the building up of the kingdom of God. And so, I believe again, God's trying to show us. Well, it's the action because words mean nothing. So, if a person's starving, you know, and I I've got an apple I can give him or I tell him about Jesus and then I eat the apple, I didn't really show him any love.

That's right. Right. You know, I may say, "Hey, eat my apple. I just told him about Jesus and he didn't even accept it." That's right. was because the only Jesus he saw right then was me, right? He said, "That's a selfish Jesus. I'm starving. He's eating this apple and he's not sharing with me." I'm thankful for groups like Marinath and those that are literally going around the world, not only feeding people, but the Farleys who have worked and actually a few hundred,000 people have come to Jesus because they've cared enough to go to the mission field and do these work.

Absolutely. But here in our own cities, we need to do a whole lot more. I think about naps. Yeah. Oh, and just the work that that they do. And you know what, Matt? If the if the entire church, the members of the church could understand, you know what, on Sabbath, instead of me going down going and laying down and taking a nap, why don't I use that day the way God said to use it? Yeah. Why don't I take why don't I consider what can I do on Sabbath to be a blessing to someone in the community? What can I bring?

You know, what about I you know what? I know there's a family. They don't even know who I am, but there's a family whose children need sneakers. So, you know what I'm going to do? Wednesday, I'm going to go out and buy a pair of sneakers. Absolutely. And on Sabbath, I'm going to go I'm going to knock on the door. I'm going to run away. I'm going to leave the pair of sneakers right there. I'm going to leave a little card that says, "Today is a Sabbath day. God was thinking about you. This is a sign of his love for you."

Do you think that person would ever forget about the Sabbath? because they would see the sab the God of the Sabbath. Sabbath is the day that Adventists should most be known to be in the community blessing others. Right? I'm not talking about breaking the Sabbath, but I'm saying what can we do to find ways to be a blessing, especially on Sabbath, so that the community begins to look forward to this, man, I can't wait for Sabbath to roll around. What are those Adventists going to do? Who are they going to bless?

And think about all the different things, the ideas we could come up with to actually fulfill Isaiah 58. If we could actually make Isaiah 58 a day of mercy to where our community knows, do you know how many people we'd be winning into the church? It would be absolutely amazing. See, we lose our focus as a people of really what it's all about because in the times that we're we're right now, we've got people in the church who some are Democrat, we have some who are Republican, we have some who are this, and every group that comes up, and I won't go into all the names, but there are groups that say certain lives matter.

Yeah. Okay. Well, with Jesus, all lives matter. But certain people want to say, "Well, let's they're doing good." But when you go look at that, align yourself with any of these groups, they're supporting homosexuality, they're doing all these things are anti-Bible. So, we as a church and a people, we can't align ourselves with any groups, whether it's political groups, whether it's groups, if it's ethnic groups or whatever, unless that all lines up with the Bible. Right. Other than that, we just have to love people.

And what you said is we don't have to join somebody else because they got a good idea. It's otherwise then why be an Adventist? I'll just join any church because any church, Catholic church does a lot of good things. I might as well be a Catholic. But there's a message, an end times message for an end times people. And so because of that, we have to stay focused on what God would have us to do. But what you're saying is we need to do more of the physical rather than just Absolutely. There are websites and magazines that spend their whole time arguing among themselves about well this person says this and this one well we should accept this we shouldn't have.

There's whole magazines preachers read the magazines everybody reads and all it is is about division rather than unity. It's causing everybody wants to pontificate. Is that a word? Oh that's good. Is that a word? Okay. That's what they want to do. rather than to say, "Look, I'm here for a purpose, and that purpose is to give the three angels messages to the world, but I can't." Yeah. We've turned our we've turned our weapons on each other. Yeah. Instead of uniting and turning it, you know, and not turning on the world, but like going out into the world.

So, even like we with these movements, you know, Black Lives Matter, for example, they're, you know, they're fighting for something, but I just don't believe that they have the right solution. You see what I'm saying? They're the the you know what they're oh black any movement you know Republicans, Democrats, guess what? They're everyone knows this world is messed up and everyone is saying this is the solution and we should be saying hey I feel you. That's right. I feel your pain. What are you fighting for?

Yeah, I feel that the world is messed up and you know however you know let me show you. Right. Let me acknowledge that I feel your pain but then let me show you. Yeah. You ever heard about the three angels messages? You know, man, listen to this. You know, like, you know, I just think about, you know, as God's people, we should we should be fighting the hate. That's our mission is to fight the hate. So, when we're like, we see the hate in all these different areas. We should be What does it mean to fight the hate?

It means to fight it with the love of Jesus. And what if we're going out together doing feeding and clothing, helping, you know, ministering with black and white, Hispanics, Asians, as as Adventist Christians, we all people say, "Wait a minute, how those all folk we we see their love in there." And there's all of these we should really be to the point that people don't see a difference in us, right? We're just Seventh Day Adventist Christians and we love people and everybody's not going to like, you know, in fact, all who live godly shall suffer persecution.

But what a privilege it is. One time May Chung, a lady that was on our board for many years, a wonderful lady, she said to me, you know, we were going through a lot of things and she said, "Oh," and I think I was complaining some early years. I said, "Man, this there people's complaining about this. are and and they're doing this to us and 3ABN and me personally, they're writing all this stuff. And she says, you know, I wish I need to do a lot more so I can get to Jesus treatment. And I looked at her for a minute and she said, "Oh, you're so blessed.

If you're getting Jesus treatment, you know, I it makes me want it, Lord. I'm going to do more because I want to be treated like that." Well, most of us say we don't want to be treated like that. But what she the point she was making is you know for all of us that we have to be a take a risk. We take a a risk for Jesus. So what you're saying is so applicable here and for all of us you know when we look at this through the Bible he's given us showing us we have options. Yes. It's not like this is where you're going to go.

We have options of how do we want to this movement. How we going to respond as a church and as a people before Jesus comes back. Right? Because it's a life and death issue for you and me. We can do all this stuff we want and go on these websites and you know I'm smarter than you. Look at this. No, I got this answer. And yet the world around us is dying. I've had people write books about me 3ABN. And instead of spending years writing about Jesus and for people how to get saved, they want to write books about other people and criticize.

And the worst part is people in the church will read it and say, "Oh, that's terrible. I'm not going to support 3A being anymore." Rather than to look at. So what you're doing is you're opening us. Here's our dimensions. We have this. We got this. We get this. And the farther we go here, the more the scales begin to fall off our eyes. Right. Right. And we begin to see Jesus and the work that God has given for us and to ask God for that love. Lord, give me the love. I can have all the knowledge in the world.

That's right. Without the love. That's right. What are you thinking? Uh this is this is so good because you know we one of the things in James, you know, where he talks about faith without works is dead. So, we can have all the faith we want to have, but if we're not helping people, if we're not doing something for someone, if we're not making a difference in in with the oppressed or the poor or whatever, then we are not really being true to the Isaiah 58. Yep. So, I think we're not keeping the Sabbath, right?

The keep true Sabbathke keeping is this, right? If we're not even keeping the Sabbath, we're not repairing the breach. Yeah. Yeah, this is so deep to me because and and maybe I shouldn't bring so much of the the the close at home, but I don't know. There's not one church outside our church, one organization that I know of that's intent on shutting 3ABN down. You know, I mean, persecution. There's not groups out there, the Baptist saying we got to shut down. Now, some of them may not like it. There's the Catholic Church isn't saying, but there's groups within the church whose goal is to shut 3ABN down.

Now, so and and tell me about that. I mean, I'm mind boggled by it. I know. I mind it. I know. And the the good thing about this what we're doing right here is showing the tape, people get to see, wow, am I, you know, we look at ancient Israel and say, ancient Israel, ancient Israel. H glad that's not us, right? really man. Am I participating? Am I being blinded just as they were being blinded back then? Right. And watching the tape is so crucial. It is so important. Yes. So, look, I'm going to show you this because I know our time is running out and I haven't even gotten to the meat of Give it to us.

We got 18 minutes. 18 minutes. So, Isaiah 11 verses 12- 14. God says this, "He shall set up an end sign for the nations." Isaiah is writing it, but he says, "He shall set up an end sign for the nations and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth." Now, Israel, remember the talked about the tribes being separated, right? Israel was the name of uh the one kingdom. Judah was the name of the other, but Israel was often uh spoken of as Ephraim.

So, I'm saying that so you can understand what you're about to read here. The envy also of Ephraim shall depart. And the adversaries of Judah shall be cut off. Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall not vex Ephraim, but they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines toward the west. They shall spoil them of the east together. They shall lay their hand upon Edom and Moab, and the children of Ammon shall obey them. God here is saying that there's coming a time where Ephraim and Judah, the two separate, those separated will be joined together.

They will be one. And when they are one, guess what they're going to do? They're going to sub subdue Edom, Moab, and Ammon. Now, I just have to juice this down to let to because we're running out of time. But Edom, Moab, and Ammon, Bible says they shall or Edom, Moab, and Ammon shall obey them. These were enemies of God's people that would ultimately obey God's people. In other words, it's talking about at the end of time, there'll be a group of people who once disobeyed God who will now obey him.

Edom, Moab, and Ammon are described in Daniel 11 under the king of the north, king of the south. Edom, Moore, and Ammon will escape the king of the north. It's a it's a reference to an end time people who will come out of Babylon and be one to the truth. But notice how there they cannot be one until Ephraim and Judah stop envying each other and become one. All right, I'm going to juice something else really quickly. It's the book of Ezekiel. In the book of Ezekiel, we find another parallel of God's end time movement.

So, here's what we find in Ezekiel chapters 1 through3. God calls Ezekiel to preach to a stubborn and rebellious people. Well, guess what? God causes end time people to preach to a stubborn and rebellious people to Babylon. Okay. From chapters 4 to 24, Ezekiel is preaching about the abominations being done in the temple. Guess what God's end time movement is about? It's about preaching about the abominations of Babylon. From chapters 20 25 to 32 is all about the fall of Egypt to a power named Babylon.

Just as at the end of time, Egypt, the king of the south, according to Daniel 11, will fall to Babylon, the king of the north, from 33 to 36, there's a revival, uh there's a revival described, an outpouring, if you will, of the Holy Spirit, just as at the end of time, God's people are going to experience a revival, an outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Now, in Ezekiel 3, I just set the foundation for Ezekiel 37. Ezekiel 37 is the valley of dry bones. Okay. Okay. After the valley of dry bones is Ezekiel 38, which is Gog and Mog.

Gog and Magog point us to the millennium. After Ezekiel 30 and 39, Ezekiel 40-48 is all about the new kingdom. So the new kingdom, Gog and Magog, would point us to the millennium and then the new Jerusalem. Right. All right. In Ezekiel 37, you have this resurrection of dead people. Mhm. Okay. Both spiritually, God's people will be revived, but also literally, there will be a literal resurrection. So, Ezekiel 37, resurrection. Ezekiel 38 and 39, Gog and Magog, the millennium. 40 onward, the new Jerusalem.

In Ezekiel 37, towards the end of that chapter, listen to what it says. Ezekiel, we're watching the tape, right? Ezekiel 37, uh, and verse, let's see, them bones. Them bones, them dry bones. Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Ezekiel 37 verse uh here we go. Verse uh 16. Thus the word of the Lord came again unto me, saying, "Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick and write upon it for Judah and for the children of Israel, his companions. Then take another stick and write upon it for Joseph the stick of Ephraim and all the house of Israel his companions and join them one to another into one stick and they shall become one in thine handh.

And when the children of thy people shall speak unto thee, saying, Wilt thou not show us what thou meanest by these, say unto them, Thus sayith the Lord God, behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel, his fellows, and put them with him, and even with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in my hand. And the sticks where on thy rightest shall be in thine hand before thine eyes, and they shall say unto them thus, the Lord will take the children of Israel from among the heathen, whether they be gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land, and I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel, and one king shall shall be king over them all.

One stick. One. Yes. Okay. Right now, we're two sticks. Yeah. We are two sticks. We've got divisions. We got divisions based upon race. We got divisions based upon liberal conservative. We've got divisions ba we have, you know, coming divisions. And I believe that God is trying to say, "Listen, I need you guys to watch the tape because in order for the work to be finished two sticks must become one." All right. Now for the meat. Okay. All right. I don't know if I can take any more. Wasn't me. I'm going to try.

Wow. All that was preparation for this for this. Um, the Adventist church history is in the book of Exodus from beginning to end. Right? That's where we want to close. Okay? So, the children of Israel had spent 400 years in captivity. We're going to parallel that to the God's church during the dark ages spent 400 years in captivity. The end of that time period, God sends a man to Israel. That man did not want to do what God asked him to do. He was like, I can't even speak. Guess what? At the end of that 1260 year period, God called a man upon the scene by the name of William Miller.

Who was really like me? Preach. No, no, no, no, no. You got the wrong person. That's not me. Okay. Moses leads these people out of captivity, out of Babylon. Just as William Miller and that message led his people out of captivity, out of Babylon. Okay. When God does that, God gives bread to Israel, bread from heaven, mana from heaven. Just as in Revelation chapter 10, we find God giving a a open book to his people, mana, bread. Not only does God give this church, Moses' church, the church of of the wilderness, mana, the bread, he also gives them the Ten Commandments.

Wow. Here's a movement coming out of captivity. Uh they're given the word of God. They're given the ten commandments in Exodus 20. But not only are they given the ten commandments, they're given the sanctuary message. Okay. Oh, come on now. Yes. God calls these people out of captivity. Okay. Gives them the commandments and the sanctuary message. Exodus 25. Okay. Wow. Just as God called his remnant church out of captivity, 1260 years, gives them the commandments of God and the sanctuary message. Wow.

Now, that's in Exodus 25. So, just turn with me to Exodus 25 if you will, and I'm going to see how quickly I can do this because this is kind of where it all culminates. In Exodus 25, verse 8, let them make me a sanctuary that I may dwell among them, man. How many of us want God to dwell among us? All right. Yeah. Oh. So the work then is to what? Build him a sanctuary. All right. He's not going to come dwell with us until we build him a sanctuary. Ah. So you mean our mission as God's people, end time mission is to do what?

Build him a sanctuary. We have to finish the sanctuary. Nehemiah, Ezra, we have to finish the sanctuary. when we finish the sanctuary, he will dwell among us. Literally. Literally. All right. So, we know that. All right. Good. So far, that's just up to Exodus 25. So, check this out. God says to Moses, "This is how you're going to build a sanctuary." Exodus 25:8, I'm sorry, verse one. Exodus 25:1. This is what I want you to do. Because if you're going to have if you're going to build a sanctuary, you have to know how to build it.

Sure. Right. You need to know what you're going to use to build it. Mhm. So in Exodus 25 it says uh uh speak unto the children of Israel that they bring me an offering. Every man that giveth it willingly with his heart you shall take my offering. And this is the offering you shall take of them. gold, silver, brass, blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goat's hair, ramkins dyed red, badger skins, wood, oil for the light, spices for anointing oil, and for sweet incense, onyx stones, stones to be set in the ephod, and in the breastplate.

If I'm going to build a sanctuary, I have to know the building material. Mhm. And so when you look at this, these were brought by the people. Do you know that gold, the first thing he said is symbolic of faith. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Do you know that silver represents the word of God? The word of the Lord is as silver tried in fire. Okay? Every one of these articles that he talked about has a symbolic meaning in the scripture. Wow. Because we don't have time, I'm just going to read it to you.

Mhm. Gold represents faith or hearing. Silver represents the word of God. Brass represents steadfastness. Blue represents obedience. Purple and scarlet represents the priesthood. Fine linen represents the righteousness of Christ. Goat's hair represents his covering. That was covered the sanctuary. Ram skins dyed red represents Christ sacrifice. Badger skin represents Christ sacrifice. Shitim wood it means a curse. So it points us to the curse. oil for the light, sweet uh spices for anointing oil, the anointing oil and sweet incense represented intercession, the onx stones, stones represented preciousness.

And I have verses for all this, but I'm just juicing it down. Ephod was worn on the shoulders, the breastplate on the heart. Listen to what the message is. Hear the word of the Lord. The word of the Lord. Be steadfast and obey. And he will make you kings and priests, purifying you through his righteousness. He will cover you by his sacrifice of his flesh. He will take our curse upon himself and through his spirit he will give you light. He will intercede for us and anoint us as precious bearing us as precious upon his shoulders and upon his heart.

This is the message of the sanctuary. All right. When we build the sanctuary, something amazing happens. But first, God says, "I need you to bring the building material." So every man brought, some had gold, some had silver, some had bronze, some had, in other words, everyone had a piece to bring and to play in the building of the temple. So man, someone's strong in faith, man. Bring your faith. We need it. So bring it. Some were strong in the word of God. Man, bring it. Bring your understanding of the word.

All these things were necessary in order to complete the building of the temple. Every individual upon whom the spirit of God moved brought something. The Bible says it was literally every every man above 20 above the age of 20 brought according to what the Lord had given him. Now here's the thing. Where did they get it from? Where did they get all this stuff from? Because a sanctuary itself would have cost in today's money would have cost $57 million in today's money. Where did they get it from?

They got it from the Egyptian. Egyptians when they came out of Egypt sold it all out. That means they were provided with enough. They had it symbolically. The experience of the beginning of their movement is what they use to finish the work. Okay? Go back to the gold that our fathers had. Go back to the faith they had. Go back to the word they had. If we go back to that same zeal that began the work, it's that same zeal we need to finish the work. Okay, God says bring it. Now, let me share one more thought because I know we're I know we're right now.

Listen, you have to read this. Uh, Exodus 30, Exodus chapter 40. By the way, they brought so much that Moses had to say, "Okay, you brought enough. Mhm. They brought it off. They brought it to a man named Bezale who was the builder of the sanctuary. They didn't know how to do it. Bezel knew how to do it. We may not know how to use our gold, our faith. Bring it to Jesus. He will complete the work. But we have to bring it to him. And now the final thing the Bible says in Exodus 40:17. Exodus 40. I'll read it from my computer.

And this is the last thing I share. Exodus 40 for this program. Exodus 40 verse I'm sorry I'm in Ezekiel. I'm sorry. I'm in Ezekiel. That's all right. I have Exodus 40. I I just have to find the verse. Um here we go. Exodus 40 and verse uh after it talks about Moses doing all this setting of setting up of the sanctuary in verse 33. And he rared the court round about the tabernacle and the altar and set up the hanging of the courtgate. just going through this whole list of everything that he's done, right?

And the last sentence says, "So Moses finished the work." This is the last chapter of Exodus. Moses finishes the work. Then a cloud. Come on. Come on. When Moses finishes the work, a cloud descends. Huh. Do you want the cloud of the Lord to descend? All right. Before that cloud descends, we have to finish the work. Amen. We will not finish it until the two sticks become one. Before he comes back before the second coming, you know that little chorus the Lord gave me. I now build a sanctuary. Yes.

Deep within my heart and all the my praise I offer up to him. It's each of us individually need to build a sanctuary within our heart that the Lord can dwell in so we see all of the the outside and the physical. But I didn't even think about I was just singing that came to me and I had to think about is that of the Lord. I now build a sanctuary deep within my heart and all my praise I offer up to him. Yeah. What I'd like to do we want to go to an address role. Soon as that's over we come back. I think it'd be a great time we'll go out maybe in praying for Elder Ted Wilson, our general conference president, the leadership, the general conference and the divisions as they're making decisions for this church that we can be one and not split or divided that we can really defeat the enemy.

So, why don't we go to the address role? If you want to contact Pastor Ivor, you may do so at the following address. If you would like to know more about Power of the Lamb Ministries or if you'd like to invite Ivor to come to your area, you can write to Power of the Lamb Ministries, Post Office Box 485, San Juan, California 95045. That's Power of the Lamb Ministries, Post Office Box 485, San Juan, California 95045. You can call 831-62343. You can also visit his website at powerofthelamb.com. That's powerofthelamb.

Well, praise the Lord. I can't believe our time is just about all gone. Thank you, Pastor Myers, for giving us so much. Uh, you may want to get your copies, call 3ABN of this. You got the my SDA box. You can go back the programming on demand, but let's just watch the tape. Well, so why don't we do this? We're just going to go out in praying and Ivonne, we're going to ask you to pray for the leadership of our church and us as individuals that we'll comm submit and commit our life to Jesus so that we we'll be ready when that cloud does come back.

Okay, let's pray. Yes. Father God, we just thank you so very much for what our ears have heard, how our hearts have embraced this message. Lord God, we just thank you. We just lift up our leadership before you, Lord God. And we ask you to please continue to give them wisdom, give them direction, Elder Wilson, all the presidents and conference heads and division leaders. Lord God, we just we just commit them into your hands. Lord, so much is going on and yet we know that you are a God that sits high and looks low and that you know everything that's going on.

Our lives are in your hands. So Lord God, we just ask you to continue to direct our leadership and then all of the people in the church. Lord, we just pray for those within the church that they will reach out to those outside and that they will continue to um have a burden to finish the work so that we can go home with you. Thank you Lord for hearing this prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen.