Living man online church and please go ahead and put a one in the chat if you are ready to get into the word of God. Um yeah the graphics team your graphics uh wow I'm looking at the comments in the chat. Put a one everyone. Put a one if you are ready to get into the word of God today. The message is entitled when no man can buy or sell. When no man can buy or sell. Pray with me. Heavenly father ask Lord today that as I share this word Lord that you would please speak once again to your people. Lord open our eyes.

Open our hearts. and help us Lord to grab hold of this message to internalize it and that it may be lived out in our lives in Jesus name we pray. Amen. Um when no man can buy or sell. Let us go let us go to our first slide. When no man can buy or sell. We know that in the book of revelation we are told of a time that is coming. Uh it is described in revelation 13 16 and 17. And it says here and he causeth all both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond to receive a mark in their right hand or in their foreheads.

and that no man might buy or sell save he that had the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name. Uh this time period which the book of Daniel uh 12:1 describes as a time of trouble such as never was is a very serious time. Um it is the time in which the mark of the beast is initiated. And the the trouble with the mark of the beast issue is that those who refuse the mark will not be able to sell. And that's going to be a challenge for a lot of people. Think about the ability to or losing the ability to provide.

Provide for your family. Provide for yourselves. It is going to be a rough time. It is a time where no man will be able to buy or sell. Those who refuse the mark will not be able to buy or sell. In Luke 21, uh Luke 21, the Bible tells us, speaking of this time, uh it says, "Men's hearts will be failing them for fear and for looking after those things which are coming upon the earth, for the powers of heaven shall be shaken." The very next verse reads, "And they shall see the son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory."

So the Bible lets us know that during this time of the mark of the beast in which no man can buy or sell um they men's hearts will be failing them for fear. Now God's people will not be afraid. Those who are trusting in God will not be afraid. Their hearts will not be failing them for fear. Even though there is a decree that says you are unable to buy or sell unless you receive the mark, they will not fear. In fact, Psalm 91 describes the attitude of the righteous. Note with me, Psalm 91, we're going to read verses 1-6.

The Bible says, "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most high shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, he is my refuge and my fortress, my God. In him will I trust. Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust. His truth shall be thy shield and thy buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness, nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.

God's people will not be afraid. Put a one in the chat. Put a one in the chat if you say amen to that. During this time when no one who receives the mark uh who does not receive the mark uh will be able to buy or sell. God says though other people's hearts around will be failing for fear because of the calamities coming upon the earth. God's people will not be afraid. God's people will not be afraid. Now y'all put put a put a two in the chat. Put a two in the chat. If you are looking, if you are seriously concerned with what will happen in that time, like in that time when no man can buy or sell because of this decree and you're saying, "I want to be ready and prepared for when this time comes that I won't be able to go to the store and buy have my vegetables.

I won't be able to go to the store and get clothing. I won't be able to go to the store and get the food that I need. What is that going to be like? And how can I prepare for that time when no man can buy or sell? That is a serious question. It is a serious question. and and as Adventists and as Christians all around, we should be concerned about being prepared for that time. But might I suggest to you that being prepared for that time in which no man can buy or sell is different than a lot of us think.

Because for many of us, we're wondering, how am I going to survive when I cannot go to the store or cannot use my my card or cannot use cash to get anything? How am I going to survive in that time? But I want to suggest to you that there is a greater concern that you and I should have. Because though there is a decree that is coming in which no man can buy or sell except he receive the mark of the beast, there is another decree that we should be more concerned about. And that decree is also about when no man can buy or sell.

Let me tell you what I'm talking about. Come with me to Revelation 3:14. And I want you to note what the Bible says here. Revelation 3 and verse 14. The Bible says, "And unto the angel of the church of the Leodysians, write these things, sayith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. I know thy works that thou art neither cold nor hot, I would that thou were cold or hot. So then, because you are lukewarm, neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth, because thou sayest, I am rich, and increase with goods, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked.

And now I want you to note these next words. I counsel thee to buy. Put that word in the chat for me. Please put that word in the chat. I'mma finish reading the text, but I just need you to put that word in the chat. I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire that thou mayest be rich, and white reignment that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear, and anoint thine eyes with eyes, that thou mayest see. So I want you to note here that God in speaking to the last day church, the Leodysian church, God says, "Listen, I am encouraging you to buy of me and I'm encouraging you to do that soon, to do that ASAP."

Now, why would God encourage us to buy and to buy now? to buy today. Because may I suggest to you that while the devil issues a decree in which no man can buy or sell save he that has the mark, at the same time, God will be issuing a decree that no man can buy or sell save he that has the seal. you that while the devil is putting a decree out, will put a decree out in which if you receive the unless you receive the mark, you will not be able to buy or sell. that at the same time God will be putting out a decree that says unless you have the seal you will not be able to buy or sell.

In other words, there is coming a time where if you have not bought what God is asking you to buy. There is coming a time where the opportunity to buy will be shut off, will be closed. Are y'all with me be? Are y'all with me? Are y'all understanding what I'm saying? While we should be concerned about not being able to buy or sell in temporal things, there is a greater concern that should occupy our minds, which is not being able to buy what God is asking us to buy of him. Now, y'all put a five in the chat.

If you are following the foundation that I've just laid, well, what does God want us to buy? I want you to note the three things according to first Peter chapter 3. Remember, he said, "I need you to buy of me gold." Why gold? The Bible says, "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time.

So the text is saying that there is going to be a keeping power of the of the people of God in the very last time. And what is that keeping power? It is faith. Faith is that keeping power. Let's keep reading. So, so again it says, "Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time, wherein you greatly rejoiced, though now for a season, if need be, you are in heaviness through manifold temptation." And watch this. That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen, you love, in whom, though now you see him not, yet believing you rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls.

So everything we just read says to us that the reason why God wants us to buy gold is because gold is symbolic of faith. And faith will be required in the last time in that time of trouble in that time where only those who receive the mark will be able to buy or sell. God says, "Those who have faith in this time will stand against this time of trouble." will stand in this time of trouble. Why? Because they bought while they could buy. They bought while they could buy. What about the oil? What about the oil?

Let's go back to the screen. Zechariah 4:1. Zechariah is in vision here. The Bible says, "And the angel who spake with me came again and woke me like a man awakened from sleep and said unto me, what seeest thou?" And I said, I I've looked, and behold, a candlestick of all all of gold with a bowl on the top of it, and his seven lamps thereon, and seven pipes to the seven lamps which are on top thereof, and two olive trees by it, one upon the right side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side of it.

So he sees this candlestick, this lamp, and then there are two olive trees on either side of the lamp. The text goes on to say, the text goes on to say, "So I answered and spake to the angel that talked with me, saying, "What are these, my Lord?" Then the angel that talked with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, "No, my Lord." And then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord unto Zerubbabel, saying, Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord.

Who art thou, oh great mountain, before Zerubbabel, thou shalt become a plain, and they shall bring forth the headstone thereof, shouting, grace, grace unto it. Why do we need the oil? Because beloved, the oil represents the Holy Spirit. And it is the Holy Spirit then that allows our fire to keep burning even in that time of trouble where only or those who do not receive the mark of the beast will not be able to buy or sell. And this is why Jesus is inviting us to buy of him now. by gold, by the oil, by the white raignment.

That was the third thing mentioned in Revelation chapter 3, the white raignment. Notice with me, Revelation 19:8. Revelation 19:8, the Bible says, "And to her was granted that that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, for the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints." Do you see what God is doing here? He's saying, "I need you to buy of me righteousness. I need you to buy of me gold, faith. I need you to buy of me oil." That's the Holy Spirit. I need you to buy these things of me.

What is the white linen? It is the righteousness of the saints which in actuality notice with with me with me Genesis 15:6 the Bible says and he believed speaking of Abraham he believed in the Lord and he counted it to him for righteousness. Do you see God is trying to make sure that our belief, our faith is strong in him. And so and so God says, "I need you to buy of me gold. I need you to buy of me oil. I need you to buy of me white raignment." Why white raignment? It is the righteousness of Christ.

And by the way, all who are found with the white raignment provide the evidence that they have not listened to the lies of Satan. When God spoke to Adam and Eve in the garden and they were naked and knew that they were naked. The reason why they were naked is because they had listened to the word of Satan over the word of God. So the white raignment is evidence that we are not listening to Satan. The oil is evidence that the Holy Spirit is in us and the gold is evidence that we are walking by faith.

These are the things that God has invited us to buy of him. Why? Because beloved, because there is a time coming. In fact, let me read this. Jeremiah 23:6. Let's go to the screen. In the days of Judah shall be saved. In the days in his days, Judah shall be saved. Israel shall dwell sa safely. And this is the name whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. The Lord is our righteousness. Where to buy the gold, that's faith. We're to buy the oil, that's the Holy Spirit. And where to buy the white raignment, which is the covering of Christ in us now.

Now, why are we to buy and why are we to buy now? Let me show you. There is a time coming where Jesus will say, "He that is unjust, let him be unjust still. And he which is filthy, let him be filthy still. And he that is righteous, let him be righteous still. And he that is holy, let him be holy still." In other words, beloved, just as Satan issues a decree that says, "Now nobody can buy or sell except they receive the mark, so God has his own decree. Let him who is righteous be righteous still.

Let him who is filthy be filthy still." And in that time of that decree, there is no more ability to do what you could have done before. It is now too late. In fact, you all may remember a parable found in Matthew chapter 25. Let's go there. Matthew chapter 25, beginning with verse 6. The parable of the 10 virgins in which five were wise and five were foolish. And at midnight, the Bible says, there was a cry made, "Behold, the bridegroom cometh, go you out to meet him." Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps.

And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for us and you. But go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves. Buy for yourselves. Beloved, understand that by the time these five foolish virgins go to buy for themselves, the sales are already over. When they come back, it is already too late. Whoever they bought from, it wasn't Jesus. Whatever oil they got, it wasn't the Holy Spirit. They had passed the time that heaven was open for business.

So God says, "I need you to buy now." So, so now that we understand, oh wow, there's a there's a time where I will no longer be able to buy the things that God is saying I need for the time of trouble, then I better buy now. So, now our question is, well, okay, how shall we buy? What does it mean to buy? Well, to buy, what do you need in order to buy? Let me ask it that way. What does everyone need in order to buy? And what can you not buy without. Come on y'all. You cannot buy. If you go to the store today and you say, "I'd like to buy something."

What do you need in order to buy that thing? You need money. You need money. You need currency. You cannot buy without currency. Listen to what the Bible says in Matthew chapter 19:1 16. The Bible says here, "And behold, one came and said unto him, good master, what good thing shall I do that I may may inherit eternal life?" And he said unto him, "Why callst thou me good? There is none good but one, that is God. But if thou wil enter into life, keep the commandments." And he saith unto him, which Jesus said, "Thou shalt do no murder.

Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Honor thy father and thy mother, and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." And the young man said unto him, "All these things have I kept from my youth. What lack?" Now, do y'all remember the name of this story? What's the name of this story? What do they call this story in the Bible? It is a story about the what? The something something ruler. Y'all put it in the chat. What is this story about? It's the story of rich young ruler.

Notice what the Bible says. Notice what the Bible says in the next verse. So Jesus said unto him, "If thou wil be perfect, go and sell what you have and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me." But when the young man heard that saying, he went away and was sorrowful, for he had great possessions. How do we get treasure in heaven? Because that's what the text said. In order to get treasure in heaven, what do we first need to do? What do we first need to do if we want treasure in heaven?

So, what would the treasure in heaven be? Maybe the white raignment, maybe the oil, maybe the gold. What would we need to do according to what we just read? Jesus said, "Go and put that word in chat." I should I You know what? I should have called it just called this sermon sell. Go and sell. The secret to buying is selling. Put that in the chat for me, y'all. Please. The secret to buying is selling. If I want to buy, I've got to first sell. H listen, listen. Now, we're not talking about sell things for money.

Because remember Isaiah 55:1 says, "Oh, everyone that thirsteth, come ye to the waters. He that hath no money, come ye buy and eat. Yay, come buy wine and milk without money and without price." So God is not saying here that you need actual money in order to buy. No, this is this is this is spiritual. This is spiritual. So so so God is saying I need you all if you want treasure in heaven. I need you to start selling some stuff off. Y'all put a five in the chat if you begin to see where I'm going.

God is saying, "I need y'all to sell some stuff. I need you to I need you all to sell some things. If you want treasure in heaven, the first thing you must do is sell. In order to buy, you have to sell. The Bible says in Luke 18:4, Luke 18:4, when Jesus saw that they were very s that he was very sorrowful, he said, "How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God?" Oh, we got to get rid of our riches. Yes. So, what are our riches? That's the question. What are our riches? What is it that we have to sell?

What is it that we are in possession of that God is saying, "If you want to follow me, sell these things." Listen to what the Bible says in Matthew chapter 6 19. Matthew chapter 6:1 19. The Bible says, "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust does corrupt, and wherein thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor moth nor rust does corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal." And now watch this next verse.

For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. From this verse, we can assume something. We can begin to understand something that if we want to know what our treasure is, all we have to do is look at where our heart is. Because now we understand that for the purpose of this sermon, we're not talking about sell your sneakers, sell your computer, sell your home, sell physical things. We're talking about selling something that is not physical. And how do we find out what that is? Well, the text says, "Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also."

Now, I need y'all to understand that the Bible says, "The heart is deceitful and wicked." So, huh, I wonder then if what God is trying to tell me is he's trying to tell me to sell the things that my heart treasures. Why? Because my heart is deceitful and wicked. Ah. Oh, wait a minute. Oh, you know what? Now this begins to make sense. Look at this. Luke 6:45. The Bible says here, "A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil.

For of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh." I get it now, beloved. Could it be that what God is trying to get us to sell is the tr the evil treasures that are located in the heart? Did y'all catch that just now? God wants us to sell the evil treasure that is within our hearts. the things that are holding us back from fully following after God, our possessions. Come on. Come on. Note with me Matthew 7 21, which makes it even clearer. Matthew 7 21 the Bible says, "For within the heart of man proceed what are those evil treasures?

evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye. Y'all remember last week's sermon? Y'all remember last week's sermon, an evil eye? Remember how Saul had that evil eye toward David? And everything that David did, Saul would go make a video about it. Everything that David did, Saul had a way to twist it to make it evil. Evil eye. God says these are the things that come from an evil heart. Blasphemy, pride, foolishness, all these things come from within and defile the man.

Listen to me, y'all. Listen to what God is saying. You guys, I need you to sell your possessions. I need you to sell your possessions because without selling your possessions, you can't buy what I'm trying to give you. You can't buy what I am selling you. anger to somebody else? Yeah, that's my possession though. You You're not trying to take that from me. And I'm not trying to take it from you. I'm asking you to sell it. I will never take anything from you by force. I will never take anything away from you against your will.

So, I need you to sell it. Wait a minute. What? This is a longunning feud. What do you mean sell it? I've invested in this. God says, "I need you to sell it. I need you to sell your anger. I need you to sell your bitterness. I need you to sell your resentment. I need you to sell I need you to sell your your hatred. I need you to sell your pride. I need you to sell your covetousness. I need you to sell these things because in selling these things, this is your demonstration that you are really intent on buying what I have for you.

Yes, Takora, sell your superpower. Remember what happened in Genesis 6:5. The Bible says, "And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually." Man was enriched with sin. He was rich in anger. He was rich. And that's how it's going to be at the end of time. So, what I want you to understand, beloved, is this. Those who are able to stand in the time of the mark of the beast and not be worried about buying and selling in that time is because they are already rich.

And the way they got rich was by selling. Y'all put a seven in the chat if you follow what I'm saying. The way they got rich in heavenly things was that they sold everything earthly. They sold everything of the flesh. Yes. Whoso loses his life for my sake. I saw you put the text in the chat. Whoso loses his life for my sake will find it. Now listen to me y'all. This is why the Bible says, watch this. Now come back with me to the screen. In 1 Timothy chapter 6:10, the Bible says, "For the love of money is the root of all evil."

And I hope, beloved, you're beginning to understand here that it's not necessarily God saying the love of the dollar bill. What he's saying is the love of riches. And now riches extends beyond the dollar bill. It extends beyond the love of riches. Wow. Okay. Okay. Now I see what you're saying. It is the love of earthly riches, not just the dollar bill, but the love of earthly riches, the things that I think will enrich my life, the things of the flesh. It is the love of riches that is the root of all evil.

Are y'all catching this? We don't want to give up the things that in a worldly sense enrich lives. Yeah, I like that. Somebody put a dollar sign s i n but the s is in the dollar sign. I like that. I like that. The love of riches you all is the root of all evil. Now let me show let me prove that to you. The love of self where the treasure where the heart is there where will your treasure be also. So if the heart is the is the treasure, if the wickedness of man is in the heart and that's the treasure, then it is love of self because I am more valuable to me than anything else on the planet.

And whatever self wants, we're going to make that happen. Let me show you. Come with me to Ezekiel chapter 28. Ezekiel chapter 28. And let's really see if the love of riches was really the root of all evil. Thou has been in the garden in the Eden, the garden of God. Speaking of Lucifer. And then it says something really, really amazing, y'all. It says, "Every precious stone was thy covering." Do y'all see that? Lucifer was covered with precious. That word precious literally means costly. Lucifer was expensively made.

Every precious stone was thy covering. The sardis, the topaz, the diamond, the barrel, the onyx, the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, the carbuncle, and gold. The workmanship of thy tabts and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that was that thou was created. And then notice the next text. Thou was perfect in thy ways from the day that was that thou was created until iniquity was found in thee. And now watch this. By the multitude of thy merchandise. What was the merchandise? What was the merchandise?

He was the merchandise, y'all. He was the merchandise. He began to look at himself. Man, you know what? I I I like this treasure. He began to look at himself and then began to merchandise himself. He was selling himself to everybody, selling himself to the angels. Self became the His love of this treasure became the root of all evil. He's selling himself. He was his treasure. He began to love himself more than he loved God. And so now we begin to learn that when we become our own treasure, when we become our own treasure, when we become the richest thing to us in our lives, the love of self, where your heart is, there will your treasure be also.

Now we're trying to guard the treasure. And what God is saying to you is, I need you to sell your treasure. Let me rephrase that. I need heart. I need you to sell it. Let Let me break this down even further, you guys. So, in order to buy faith, we have to sell doubt. Did y'all five in the chat if you caught that just now? If I want to buy faith, I have to sell doubt. So remember Jesus on the boat uh uh with the disciples. Immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and and said unto him, "Oh, thou of little faith, wherefore did thou doubt?

If I want to buy faith gold, I've got to sell doubt. Lord, I'm giving up my doubt. I'm selling it. I'm selling it. Why? Because the more doubt I sell is the more faith I buy. Yes. Yes. Yes. The more doubt I sell, and man, I am rich in doubt. I got a lot of doubt. You listen, I got doubt for days. I am rich in it. But if I start to sell off my doubt, the end result is that I'm buying belief. I cannot buy belief without first selling doubt. Are y'all with me? So, so God says, "Come on, y you guys, there's coming a time where you're not going to be able to buy or sell.

So, I've got to sell. I've got to give it away. I've got to say, I'm giving this up. I'm selling it. I'm selling doubt. If I want oil, watch this. If I want to buy oil, then I've got to sell the flesh. If I want to buy the spirit, I've got to sell away the flesh. Let me break it down. Let's go to the screen. Galatians chapter 5:1 16. I was did not intend to rhyme there. But listen to what the Bible says. Then I this I say then walk in the spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit and the spirit against the flesh.

And these are contrary one to the other. so that you cannot do the things that you would. So beloved, if I want the spirit, I've got to sell the things of the flesh. And what are the things of the flesh? Yes, Eric, let's use another word for release. I've got to release these things. I've got to sell them. Let me talk about this works of the flesh. What are the works of the flesh? Now the works of the flesh are manifest which are these adultery, fornication, unclean uh lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, stripes, seditions.

That's what God is. You sell these things. The more you sell these things is the more you're buying of the spirit. God is trying to get us to buy and sell while heaven is open for business. Sell grudges. Sell your unforgiveness. Sell your wrath. Sell Sell, sell, sell. The Bible says in Matthew 6:24, "No man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other." You cannot serve God and riches. You cannot serve God and mammon.

You've got to let it go. Jesus said again in Matthew 13:21, Jesus said, "If you will be perfect, go and sell what you have and give to the poor." and thou shalt have treasure in heaven. The secret to having treasure in heaven is to sell it all. Sell it. Sell it. Walk away from it. So then, watch this. Just as in the time of the mark, let me put it back up on the screen. Revelation 13:16, he causth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand or in their foreheads.

And that no man might buy or sell, watch this now, save he that had the mark of the name or the name of the beast or the number of his name. It's not that no one can buy or sell anymore. It's that no one can buy or sell except those that have the mark. Well, beloved, in the same way, that stands for God's decree. No one will be able to do business with God anymore except they have the name of God and his seal. So it's not God saying, "Hey, you can no longer do transactions with me." It's God saying only those who are sealed are now going to be able to buy of me.

And I notice I didn't say sell. I said only those who are sealed will still be able to buy of me. Why will they still be able to buy of him? In other words, why will he continue to provide faith for them? Why will he continue to provide oil for them in this time? Why will he continue to provide the white garment for them? Why will he even pour out extra upon them? talk to Cory, you beat me to the punch because I was going to say it. We need to have a yard sale. We need to have a yard sale. You know when you you know when you have a yard sale, what are you doing?

You're getting rid of the unnecessary stuff out of your house, out of the storehouse, garage sale. You're getting rid of the stuff you don't need anymore. Now listen to me y'all because I know what most of y'all think. Many of y'all think, "Oh, this garage sale, I'm putting this person out there and this person out there and cuz I don't want to see them. I don't want to talk to them. I'm tired of them. I don't need them in my life." That's not the garage sale I'm talking about. The garage sale I'm talking about is selling things, not selling people.

You're trying to get rid of the junk in your own heart. So come back. Watch this. Now the the reason that God's people will not have anything left to sell in that time is because they sold all. They have nothing left to sell. Which means if they have nothing left to sell, they have all the money in the world to buy and buy and buy. And now they're buying extra grace and extra gold and extra oil and extra raymond. Why? Because in the time of trouble, we are going to need a grace that we do not now possess.

We're going to need a level of the spirit that we do not now possess. Why? because that time is going to be a greater time of trouble than any other time previously. Listen to me. Listen to me here. What the Bible says in Matthew 13:45 and 46. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls, who when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold. How much How much did he sell? He sold out. He sold out. God is calling you to be a sellout. God is calling you to sell everything out.

Sell everything out. The devil doesn't want to say, "Man, don't be a sellout. Don't sell my stuff." God is calling us to everything. Sell it all. So then those who sell it all, those who in the yard sale, the spring cleaning, or if we want to use biblical terms, the fall cleaning, day of atonement, day of atonement is the garage sale. You guys, the day of atonement, the day of atonement is the garage sale that prepares us to get what we need to stand in the time of trouble. Yes, Jerry. Going out of business go.

Back in the day in New York, there was that Crazy Eddie message. Y'all remember that Crazy Eddie? And Crazy Eddie had to get rid of everything in the store. Everything had to go. Beloved, God is calling us to sell everything to go out of business. We're not doing business. We're not holding the devil's furniture stuff anymore. We're not holding his his riches. We're selling it all. What does that mean? It means selling out animosity. It means selling unforgiveness. It means selling your grudges.

God is. And beloved, I believe that that's why God is Satan is really trying to just if he can get us as members of the church to attempt to destroy, to be angry with, to hold grudges, and then issues that decree that no man can buy or sell. Do y'all understand this? Everyone, anyone who has any stuff left to sell and the mark of the beast is issued, you are going to don't ask me how. Just saying. You will end up receiving the mark. Why? because you still had stuff that you had to sell. And that's what the devil is banking on.

Because those who still have stuff to sell will end up being so terrified of this physical challenge of, "Oh, I can't buy food. I can't buy whatever because I'm not trusting in God. I don't know what it means to trust in God. I don't know what it means to have that kind of faith. I don't know what it means to have that kind of that that kind of spirit because I'm used to walking in the flesh. I'm used to getting angry. I'm used to allowing my anger to get the best of me. I'm used to it. Understand what I'm saying?

When the righteous have sold all, now they have limitless funds to buy from God something that they cannot get except in that time. Let me let me tell you what I'm talking about. And we're almost done. We're almost done. Hebrews chapter 4:16, the Bible says, "Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain, get a hold of, obtain mercy, and to find grace to help in the time of need." I'm going to end with a with a statement here with a quote from Ellen White, and you'll see what I'm talking you will see what I mean about what I just said about needing extra grace in that time.

grace that we do not now have. Y'all ready? Here we go. Here we go. Last last set of slides here. Last quote is from the Desire of Ages, page 354. The disciples were not endowed with the courage and fortitude of the martyrs until such grace was needed. I can stop right there. I'm not even going to read the rest of the quote. I can stop right there. When we wonder about the martyrs, like how did they how were they able to go through that trial? Elsewhere, she says they didn't always have that faith.

It was at the moment that they needed that kind of faith that they were supplied with that kind of faith. None of us right now possess the faith that will be necessary to make it in the time of trouble. Right now, God gives us grace sufficient for the crisis. He gives us grace sufficient for what is a for for what we're going through at the moment. But the world is coming to a place where Jesus said it'll be a time of trouble such as never was. And beloved, in that time, we are going to need much more grace than we need for, let's say, somebody cut me off while I was driving and it made me really remember last week how we talked about this this false spirit of persecution in America today.

I was forced. Uh they're taking away Christmas. You can't say Christmas. What shall we do? Woe is me. Remember we talked about that last week or the week before? I think it was last week. And the Bible says, "If the footmen have wearied you, how will you do in the time of the horsemen?" Of the horses. In the time of trouble, beloved, only those who are still able to buy are going to get the grace that is needed for the time of trouble. Yeah. Let not your heart be troubled. Don't think to yourself, I don't know if I have what it takes to make it through the time of trouble.

No, right now, you don't have what it takes because we're not in the time of trouble. But when that time of trouble hits, God is going to pour out more grace. But he's only pouring out more grace for those five wise virgins. The ones, listen to me, ones who sold everything, so that in that time they could buy and buy and buy and buy and buy. So in conclusion, you all it. Sell it all. Sell it before the time comes where sell except he that. And you fill in the blank. You fill in the blank. He that has the mark or he that has a seal.

Two groups of people, two decrees. Which group of people are you going to be in? That's right, Faith. You need to sell everything before the close of probation. Sell it all. Have a yard sale. Have a yard sale. If you need to do a weekly yard sale, do a weekly yard sale. sell it. What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and yet loses his own soul? Y'all put that one in the chat if you are looking forward to having daily weekly yard art sales until you sell everything. Put that one in the chat.

Pastor, I got so much stuff in my house. You You wouldn't believe it. You're right. I need to do some spring cleaning, some fall cleaning. I need to I got a bunch of stuff I need to sell. I see the ones coming in the chat. I see the ones coming in the chat. That is your standing up. That is you standing up before the Lord today and saying, "Yes, Lord. Yard sale. Yard sale. It's time to sell." Heavenly Father, thank you for speaking to us. Thank you Lord for showing us that there is a time coming where no one will be able to buy or sell from you unless they have the seal of God in their foreheads.

Please Lord, teach us to sell everything that we have now that we might purchase the treasure of heaven that we may purchase the Isalve, the gold, the white raignment. Teach us, Lord, to sell our treasure before it is too late. So that we might buy the treasures of heaven in a time where there will be spiritual poverty across the whole world. May we be rich in that time. Grant us the grace we will need to stand in that time. And we thank you Lord for your desire to see every one of us saved. Lord, I want to pray a special prayer for anyone who especially inside the living man of church or outside the living man of church who have riches that they need to sell.

[Music] animosity, anger, bitterness, unforgiveness to one another. Please, dear Jesus, help help them to sell it all and not try to go back and buy it. I don't know. I shouldn't have got rid of that. I want to go back and buy it. Help them to sell it and not return. Not ask for a refund. Please Lord, let us not ask for a refund. Let us sell it and leave it. And we thank you, Lord. We thank you for what you are selling us. Or we thank you that you're not selling it for money. You're selling it for us.

You want us. So Lord, please redeem your people and we thank you and love you. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. And amen. All sales final. Amen. So you guys, you can look in the chat, you will see the slide. If you would like a copy of these sermon slides, you'll see it right there in the chat. Hit on that link. I want to again encourage you guys if you have not um um subscribed to Living Mana YouTube channel. Uh make sure you do that as well. Um if there's any of you that are interested in beginning to study the Bible, perhaps to be baptized um or to join the church by profession of faith.

Uh I'm I'm hoping that we can put that slide up where people can get in touch with our Bible worker. Um, and it should be uh Bible worker at um uh at Living Mana. Let's see if we can get that up there. At least get it in the slide. And then lastly, we're going to put the link in the chat for our afterglow. Um, please feel free to join us. We're going to talk about what we learned in Sabbath school. We're going to talk about what you got from the sermon. So, this is where we fellowship and you know, we invite you all to to fellowship with us.

This is not just for the Living Mana Church members, but for everyone. So um it's a beautiful time that we come together and we just share how the Lord has inspired us um through the message. And again uh thank you for joining us. May God bless you. May God keep you and we will see you again next week. Share this message. Share this sermon. May God bless you. Till we meet again. Amen.