good evening everyone. Um hopefully everybody is doing well. Um just want to let you know that this is not going to be uh an extended um video. Uh I'm actually just jumping on uh to make an announcement about photo theology in seven days. So some of you are um aware of my photo theology in seven days class. There's also the Daniel in seven seven days class and the revelation in seven days class. Um we've actually gone through a cycle of each of these classes and um the next cycle uh for the photoology course begins in two days.

So it's actually supposed to begin a little bit earlier uh actually last um last Sunday, but we're going to be starting this Friday instead. So, for those of you that have been asking, did the class start? Uh, is it too late to sign up? The answer is no to both of those. Okay. Uh, you can still sign up for the course. Uh, we're going to be starting, like I said, Friday night. And for those of you who are unaware, this is uh a 7-day how to study the Bible course. Um I'm teaching it live and uh it's going to be two hours every evening.

So, beginning Friday night, um this Friday, Saturday, uh for seven days, we're going to be going through the photo theology palace. If you've listened to my sermons, if you've listened to me preach, if you've listened to my teaching, um the photoology principle basically summarizes, I shouldn't say summarize, basically details how I study the Bible. Um, and so I'm teaching that seven days, two hours a day. That's 14, excuse me, 14 hours of teaching, y'all. 14 hours of teaching. Um and what we're doing in this class is we are going through there are 38 floors in this palace what I call the photo theology palace.

Um these 38 rooms all represent different principles of photo theology. And the basic idea behind it is that you could take any verse uh any text you're studying, any parable, any prophecy and actually funnel it through 38 different ways. Let me say it this way. 38 different ways you can look at that one text. And remember that's 38 rooms. Some of these rooms have five, six, seven principles in uh within the room. Uh so for example, one of the rooms that we have is the um that's in the palace is the blue room um which is code for sanctuary room.

And in the sanctuary room, we basically learn how to take a verse and funnel it through all six articles of furniture in the sanctuary. So, it's really learning to apply the scriptures in ways that you never would have thought, ways that you never would have imagined. Like, if I were to say to you, hey, take John 3:16 and I want you to look at John 3:16 in the context of the table of showbread. Now, look at John 3:16 in the context of the altar of sacrifice. Look at John 3:16 in the altar of the in the in the um context of the labor.

Look at John 3:16 in the context of the table of the uh altar or the um altar of incense. Look at John 3:16 within the context of the seven branch candlestick and look at John 3:16 in the context of the ark of the covenant. Those are six different studies that as you are looking at that one verse in six different ways, you're going to see things that you may have never I never thought about that before. I never thought to connect John 3:16 with the ark of the covenant or with the altar of incense.

So that is just one example. In other words, it's not really just 38 ways to look at the verse. Um, it's an infinitely greater number because after you finish moving that verse through all of those different principles and you come up with a you you you're leaving that room with a thought that you didn't have going into that room, you cannot take that new thought and funnel it again through all 38 rooms and through all the principles that come with it. So, that's just kind of like a rough idea of what this photoology course is about, what the class is about.

Um, again, the class will begin uh this Friday night, 7 p.m. The website, if you want to register for the class, if you want to sign up for this course, um, is myphototheology.com. Okay? my photoology.com. Go to that site. You're going to see three classes. There is the Daniel in seven days class. There is the Revelation in seven days class. And there is the photo theology in seven days class. We're dealing we're are going to be doing the photo theology in seven days first. Now, uh, for those of you that sign up for this class, you are going to get a sneak peek at, yes, I'm about to say it, the new photo theology app.

You will be among the first to see this app. So now I know that you are probably aware of the photoology GPT. This is different. This is an app and uh it is fire y'all. That's all I'm going to say. It is fire. Anyway, um so that's it everyone. I just wanted to let you know um photo theology my photoology um at myphototheology.com. Sorry, myphototheology.com. And that's where you go to sign up. Sign up for the photo theology class, the Daniel class, and revelation class will come at later dates. Uh and I'll make those announcements as well.

Um but uh that's it everyone. That's it. So hopefully uh I will see you in class this Friday. Uh it is live and by the way uh you will get PDFs. Um you will have access to the recording. So, if there's a day that you or a night that you're unable to make, um it will all be recorded, you'll have access to it. This is an interactive class, so you get to ask me questions. Um the whole thing, it's all live. So, uh with that said, guys, uh go to the website myphototheology.com, sign up, and I will see you Friday night.

God bless you.