All right. Good evening. Um, good evening everyone. Uh, y'all go ahead and put a one in the chat. [clears throat] Uh, I just want to make sure that you guys are able to hear me. So, um I am jumping on tonight, guys, uh to do uh one of uh well the first of what will be um multiple uh presentations on my new photoology bible suite. So, uh, yeah. Um, I want to just again make sure that you guys could hear me. So, uh, just go ahead and put that one in the chat. All right. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent.

Um, yeah. So again guys, thanks to everyone um to uh really just take some time to By the way, thank you for everyone that has been praying for me over the last uh over the last week. Uh all prayers are appreciated. Um thank you for lifting me up. Thank you for lifting my family up. Um all right, guys. So tonight, um, we're going to be talking about the photo theology Bible study software. And, um, [clears throat] you can see it on the screen behind me. Uh, but I'm going to actually be sharing my screen.

So, uh, we're going to walk through this app. Now, we're not going to do it all tonight because there is too much in this app. All right. Um, some of you may already be familiar with the app. Uh, may or I should say the software. Um, but I'm going to share my screen. I'm going to kind of walk through some things. And again, this is going to be ongoing for uh for some time because there is a lot in this uh Bible software. So, um, with that said, guys, let's go ahead and jump in and I'm going to share my screen here.

Uh, so for those of you who may be hearing about this for the first time, uh, this is the photo theology Bible study suite. And, um, I will just give you a little bit of background about this. So for uh over 20 years I've been teaching the um uh an approach to Bible study called photo theology. And um what this approach does is it basically helps you to understand the Bible um by using images. So, if you've heard the the the the phrase, a picture is worth a thousand words, that is the concept that I apply to Bible study.

So, that when I'm studying the Bible, I'm always uh um having seeing mental pictures of the text I'm studying, of the story I'm studying. There's a storyline being created. It's almost as if every time I preach a sermon, I feel like I feel as if I'm creating a movie, like I'm producing a movie. Um, I'm taking the various scenes of the Bible and putting them in in a particular order that is going to bring that aha moment, if you will. So, uh, this is the system of photo theology. Uh it is a system that is uh that is heavily dependent upon learning how to think in pictures.

And so I've been teaching uh um uh classes on this for years and years and years now. Army Bible Camp, if any of you have ever been to an Army Bible Camp, you're you're familiar with photo theology. If you've heard me preach, you're familiar with photo theology. Um I have a photoology class that I have been teaching for the last five to six years now. It is the same class and we have been going through the principles of photoology um for that long. And um so this is a very extensive system of Bible study.

Okay. And um the the whole basis of this uh of this approach to Bible study, we we we use what we call the photo theology palace. The photoology palace, imagine a a palace with eight floors and across these eight floors are 37 rooms. Each room represents a principle and and uh within each room are multiple aspects of that particular principle. So the idea behind this is that I could take one verse and actually carry that verse to each room in the photo theology palace and study it from a different perspective, a different angle, a different principle.

one text I can move it through all 37 rooms through all eight floors and get a different perspective a different understanding from that one text and so this is the system that I've been teaching and now I have made it um available in a software program now at first the goal was to make it an app and it still is going to be an app but you guys I have to tell you that I use this on my computer way more than I do on my phone, right? Uh for those of you who have who have uh who are familiar with uh my Bible teachings, you know that I've often uh encourage people to use Esord.

And there's several other Bible softwares >> [clears throat] >> um that that people use that I utilize. And so in creating this software, I wanted to basically take an esord, a logos, um a blue letter Bible, and then amplify it by adding the photo theology principles. And um that's what this software is. It is you guys. I don't even I'm not even sure how to express to you uh how powerful this photo theology Bible study suite is. Um, if you if you try to go to like uh chat GPT or any other AI program and try to ask it, you know, this question about the Bible or that, it's going to give you answers.

But this Bible software is actually trained to use the photoology principles, which makes it different from anything else out there. Okay. So, this uh this software by the way um I'm going to put the address for this software in the screen uh in the chat so that you guys can have can see how to get access to it. Um so it is photoologybible.com. Some of you may may already be familiar with um uh the photo theology Um same site but is the preferred uh address um for you to get to this software. Okay.

All right. So guys, um with all of that said, um this Bible study suite, this Bible study um uh program basically is everything that I have been teaching over the last 20 plus years uh brought down into one software. That's what this is. Okay. So I want to kind of walk you through an overview of this app. And as you can see on the screen um uh let me okay so you can see here um you got two options right before you come to this app you can remain at the surface where you may continue as you are you will still read the Bible you will still find comfort you will still hear familiar truths you will stay where most remain moving verse to verse devotion to devotion never quite seeing how it all fits together.

Nothing will change. Or you can enter the palace. You may step inside. Beyond this point, the Bible will no longer appear flat. Patterns will emerge. Connections will form. What one see what once seemed distant will begin to speak across time. This is not passive study. This is not entertainment. This is not for the hurried or the casual. And uh I hope that you enter in. I hope that you enter in. So that's what we're going to do, guys. We're going to go ahead and um uh enter into the app. Um and again, I'm going to show you a a short overview.

Now, we're not going to we're not going to be super long tonight because again, there's way too much to cover um of all that this software can do. And again, for those of you that are using this on your phone, you can use it on your phone, but I definitely encourage you to um to use this on your computer for for a deeper and thorough a more thorough experience with the software. Okay. So, let me walk you through the tabs. And I just want you to take a look at how many different tabs there are in this program.

Okay, these are all the different tabs. So, you can see why I'm saying uh it'll take it'll take a minute, a good minute, a good long minute, right? It'll take some time, some some some serious time to actually go through each one of these tabs. But, um let me start with the palace tab. And uh we'll go through this in in in greater detail um in in future videos, but the palace tab which is kind which is the first page is basically where the palace lives. All right. So you can see as you scrolling down you can see this is floor one of the palace and these are the rooms of the palace.

There's the story room, the imagination room, the 24 frames per second room, the Bible rendered room, the translation room, the gems room. Each of these rooms represent a different principle. Um, so I'll give you an example. Uh, let me click on the story room. And the story room, these the first floor is very basic. Okay? It's basically uh um um a a beginning approach to the Bible. The story room, for example, is really all about making sure that your palace, your imaginary palace has enough stories stored in it because the stories are going to be the building blocks of your study, right?

So, the more stories you're familiar with in the Bible, the better you're going to be able to make connections between things you may have never thought had a connection before. So, in the story room on this app, it just teaches you, you know, hey, how do how do you learn how to not memorize stories, but lock them, you know, into your palace, right, into your mind. Um, so there are different techniques. You can you can story map a a story. You can uh look at the character portrait of the story. You can look at the sequence David the story of David and Goliath.

What is the sequence? Right? And I know this sounds very simple but again there are a lot of people who are very basic in their understanding of the Bible and you have to start at the beginning. So this app this software this software starts you know it it covers everything from the most basic level of understanding to the most scholarly level of understanding no matter where you are in your Bible study journey. Um this Bible study software is designed to cover you where you are and bring you further than where you are.

Okay. So if I continue to scroll down and you'll see here this whole room is just you know h how to how to memorize stories not memorize but how to lock the stories in your mind how to uh [clears throat] the methodologies examples right just learning how to lock these stories and then you'll go scroll down you'll see a Bible story library then the Bible the story library. Basically, what these what this is is it's just all right, we're just going to kind of summarize all the stories of the Bible, right?

And this Bible study, this Bible story library will continue to grow. So, for example, if I'm in the book of Genesis and I'm just scrolling through and looking at the different stories, now there are more stories in Genesis than just what you see here. So that's why I'm saying it continues to be populated, but basic stories, right? It's just giving you a summary of the stories of each book of the Bible. Okay, so that's pretty neat if you are just learning about the Bible. If you're just uh uh getting familiar with the stories of the Bible, uh this is all in the story room.

Okay, this is all in the story room. And let me just go back to books real quick. And again you'll see Exodus, 2 Samuel, 2 Chronicles, Job. Again, the there are the the the uh story library is still being populated. So the next time you click on, you're going to see more stories across each book of the Bible. But again, it's a basic beginning, right? To help you understand here's how I lock in the stories of the story room. All right. So, let me go back to the palace and um and again, so here are all the different rooms.

I'm going just click on one more just to show you an example. The symbols and types room. In the symbols and types room, this is all about learning the symbols and types of the Bible, right? Uh and again you'll see explanations, you'll see exercises. Map your first symbol. Uh what does the lamb represent in scripture? Um you can again as you continue to scroll down you will see a symbols library and you'll see like colors, numbers, beasts and animals, objects, nature, right? symbols of nature, names, uh body parts, materials, actions and rituals, places.

All of these are are li this is a library containing the various symbols. And again, what I want you to understand is that these libraries will continue to grow. They're just kind of giving examples of here's how you really unpack this room, this principle. There's tons of symbols across the scripture, right? Tons of stories across the scripture. So again, um, if I click in any one of these rooms in the palace, you're going to see the same thing. So, uh, that's floor number two. Here's floor number three, the freestyle floor.

Now, for those of you who may remember our freestyle Wednesdays, which are coming back. Um, this is kind of where that that principle for freestyling came from, right? So, you have the nature of freestyle. How do I take object lessons from nature and freestyle those? In other words, how do I take the grass or the thunder or the rain or the the wind or um something from the animal kingdom like the ants or the bees? How do I take these these things and apply biblical principles or look at them in their natural setting and pull object lessons of biblical principles?

uh um from [snorts] these things that I'm beholding in nature. Right? So that's the nature freestyle room. There's the personal freestyle room. Looking into your own life and saying, "What things have I gone through in my life that I can pull biblical object lessons uh that I can pull object lessons from the uh object lessons or principles, biblical principles from my own experience and apply them to the word of God." Right? So again, um, we have, uh, the Bible freestyle, which I'm going to get into a little bit later in another program.

We don't have time to do that now. The historical social freestyle, and then there's the listening room. If I go to floor four, um, [clears throat] you will see here is where the meat of photoology begins uh to really unfold. Right? These are the rooms where if you if you've heard me preach, um these are the principles you're listening to in action, right? So, there's the concentration room. How do I find Christ in the story? That's the concentration room. We're learning how to focus and lock in on Christ.

Where is Christ in this prophecy? Where is Christ in this text? Where is Christ in this parable? Where is Christ in this historical account? Where is Christ in this symbol? Right? That is the concentration room. Um, and I click on the concentration room and you'll see the explanation. The concentration room trains you to see Christ through the lens of his three-fold office, prophet, priest, and king, etc. Those are whole explanation there, right? As I scroll down in the concentration room, there are exercises, games, right?

Different things that are going to help you to learn how to lock in on Christ when you are studying any portion of the Bible. Now, I have to introduce you to Jeves, okay? Because you're you're you've probably seen Jeeves uh in this in uh on a couple of the pages that I've already shown you. And Jeeves is basically the photo theology AI that is in this software to help you with any question that you have. So, if you're in the concentration room, for example, and you're like, man, how do I find Christ in uh in the story of I'm going to use something simple, David and Goliath?

And let's say you're really struggling like where is Jesus in in the story of David and Goliath? You can go over and ask Jesus in this story. Help me find Jesus in this verse. Help me find Jesus in this parable. And so Jeeves is there almost as your photoology assistant, right? Uh this software is not designed to study for you. That's not the purpose of this of this this software. It's designed to teach you how to think photo theologically, right? It's designed to teach you how to think using images and pictures and how to make connections so that you can do this yourself.

Okay. Um All right. So, uh let me go back and again so you see all the floors. Here's floor five. Uh here is floor six. Here is floor seven. These are all the different and we we will go over all of these guys. We're going to walk through these um uh in in future um uh videos, but what I want you to see is a basic picture of how this software works. Floor eight is the mastery floor. And uh basically what this is is it's it's when all these other rooms as you have mastered these other rooms becomes reflexive where you're no longer thinking in terms of let me look at this text in the context of the five dimensions room or let me look at this text in the context of the mathematics room.

What is the mathematics room? The mathematics room is where we look at the prophetic the prophetic math of God. So, we're talking about the 120-year prophecy of Noah. We're talking about the 400year prophecy of each of uh the children of Israel in cap in Egyptian bondage. We're talking about the 70-year prophecy. We're talking about the 70we prophecy. We're talking about the 1260ear prophecy. We're talking about the 2300 day prophecy. How do these uh six time prophecies correlate with any given passage I'm studying?

Right? How How does [clears throat] uh Matthew 24 correlate with the 70we prophecy or the 70-year prophecy for that matter? If I can explain it this way, right? When you're learning to ride a Bible for the first time, um you're focused on training wheels, right? as a c as a ch as a kid you're riding the bike you know you're thinking about that the training wheels are holding you up but there comes a time where you no longer need the training wheels the principle remains you've learned how to balance the bike but you no longer need the training wheel in that same way um when I teach my students the photo theology principles we start off you know really locked in on the different rooms What is the eight cy what what are the eight cycles?

What is the juice room? What is the mathematics room? How do I apply the verse uh in the mathematics room? How do I apply the verse in the connect six room? But the goal is actually to get the student to no longer even think of those rooms. When I'm putting together my Bible studies or I'm studying the Bible or putting together a sermon, I'm not thinking, let me take this verse into the mathematics room. Let me take this room into the into the five dimensions and look at which dimension m really jumps out to me.

No, I am naturally thinking through these processes without even thinking about it. And that is kind of the basis the idea behind this eighth floor. So if we would say it this way, this eighth floor is like uh mastery level, right? um where you're no longer thinking through the rooms uh intentionally as you're reading the Bible. Stuff is just jumping out to you. Connections are just being made and the the spirit is guiding in a way where it's almost as if you're in the flow, right? You're in this flow where you're reading the text and you're like, "Man, there's Jesus right there."

You're reading the story and you're like, man, this connects with the seven churches in Revelation chapter chapter 1 and two and three. This connects with, you know, the prophecy of of Daniel 7, the the lion leopard bear uh the lion bear leopard uh dragon. You're beginning to it becomes reflexive. That's the whole idea. Okay. So guys, um the one of the neat things about this palace uh concept is that the software will teach you each room so that you learn to master the room. Okay, you learn to master the room.

Um okay, so guys, I'm going to go ahead and move on. I'm I'm going to show you a few more things and then we're going to wrap it up for tonight. But remember, we're going to be going into a whole lot more detail. And for for some of you who have been try who were trying this a little bit earlier and you found some glitches, we've been working through the glitches. Um, and it is it is a lot uh more sturdy now as I have been building it out. Um, so again, uh, it's it it continues to to, uh, just get deeper, stronger, more solid.

Um, so, uh, let me show you guys the photo theology study Bible. So, I've skipped my church space because this space here, um, and I'll talk about this another time, is is literally for churches that want their own space on the app so that their members can use the app to study, to create studies, to lead out in Bible studies, to learn how to study the word of God. So, that's another section that we're going to talk about um uh at another time, but I want to take you to the photo theology study bible, which is like one of my very favorite parts of this software.

So, in this, and again, this is just a brief overview, okay? So, we're not going into great detail, but I just want to show you. Let me let me just go to a a simple chapter here. So, we'll go to We'll go to John uh chapter We'll go to John chapter. And by the way guys, so I know that earlier, so some of you signed up for the photoology GPT, which I had presented before this software program was done, and you've been on that photo theology GPT. If if you have subscribed for the photo theology GPT, you will automatically get free access to this app.

You don't have to to subscribe to this app. If you're on the photo theology GPT already and you subscribe to one of them, email me, let me know. You will have access to this app without having to subscribe. Okay? And what I'm going to show you is that if you go over in the tab section to GPTs, you will see all those GPTs, right? We had the photo theology GPT, the uh kid GPT, the Daniel and Revelation GPT, and the apologetics GPT. So, it's all there. all right. So, you'll see this this will look familiar to to you, right?

for those of you that were on those GPTs. So, in other words, guys, this software has all those GPTs that I created before. Um, okay. So, I just wanted to point that out again for those of you that may that may be using the the GPTs that I had um released probably about maybe five four or five months ago. Um, I'm going to strongly encourage you to get on this. It is 10 times ten times ten times better than what I was presenting to you before. Okay. So in the photo theology study Bible so you'll see here this is John chapter 3 and uh I'm going to show you that again it's too much to show you in one setting.

Um but let me let me just show you this for example. So I can click on any word um and the the Greek or the Hebrew of that word is going to come up. Right? If you're in the New Testament, Greek. If you're in the Old Testament, the Hebrew. Click on any word and you'll see it populate uh with the meaning of that word in its original language. All right. So, uh, let me I'mma close that out and just, um, show you a couple things here. So, in this in this um in this Bible, the photo theology study Bible, if I hit principle mode, okay, I'm just going to show you this and I'm just leave it here.

What it's going to do is it's going to pull any random it's going to pull randomly principles from the photo theology palace and apply those principles to the text. Okay. So for example uh that which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. And what you're going to see are four different principles, right? Four different principles that are from the photo theology palace that will actually address tie that principle into the text. Right? So let me uh let me go here.

Let me go here. Actually, I'm going to click on unleaven bread, which is part of the um the the uh feast room principle, right? And in the feast room principle, it's going to have all the feasts, unleaven bread, first fruits, uh Passover, etc. And what this is going to do is it's going to show us how the the the teaching of unleavened bread, right, putting away of sin, applies to this verse. Now, here's the thing I like about this, guys. You would probably never stop to think, hey, how would unleaven bread, the feast of unleavened bread, connect with this verse?

That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. So what this software is doing is it's teaching you to think outside the box, right? While remaining inside the box, it's teaching you how to how to think through connections that you may have never thought thought of on your own because you just weren't thinking I could think like that. But when you start training your mind to think like that, now you're like, hm, I wonder what the feast of first fruits, how the feast of first fruits may connect with this.

You'll see this refresh button right here. If I hit that refresh button, it's going to pull four totally new principles from the palace to apply to the verse. Okay. So, um, and this is for every verse, guys. Every verse. I just hit refresh and it's going to pull up new principles. New principles all from the photo theology palace and apply it to that particular text. All right. So, that's I'm not going to go yet into the link mode. I'm not going to go yet into the commentaries mode. I'm not even going to go yet into into one of my most favorite aspects of this, which is the audio, Bible, and commentary.

Maybe I'll go into this a little bit. The audio Bible and commentary. You can actually listen to the Bible, but then there is a photo theology commentary where you can listen to the to the verse and then listen to the commentary read to you on that verse utilizing photo theology principles to apply to that verse. So it is a dynamic commentary. By the way, this also has all your typical commentaries like Matthew Henry, Adam Clark, um, Albert Barnes, etc. So, if you want to look at a at a at a traditional commentary, you can look at it.

But if you want to see the photo theology principles applied to the verse, you can actually go through. I'm going to show you this very quickly. [clears throat and cough] So, I'm in the Bible mode. If I click on commentary, uh let's see commentary and then I click on click on a particular verse. So I'm going to say this verse right here. Uh and now you'll see here the Jes commentary. So this is the photo theology commentary. It's going to comment on that verse. Now here's the powerful thing about this guys.

And y'all think I'm playing when I say this is powerful because first of all, if if I click revealed revealed commentary, it's going to tell me naturally what principles are already in the text. If I click apply commentary, I can now go through and say to Jesus, hey, when you're commenting on this verse, I want you to include anything that may be symbolic. I want you to include a nature freestyle. I want you to include, make sure you show me Jesus in the text. Um, I want you to include a principle from the connect six room uh from the patterns room and then see see all the options.

See all the options and then you generate the commentary and it'll give you a generated commentary on that text utilizing those principles. you guys. Oh, and for those of you who just asked, Clint, see that right there? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Spirit of prophecy is included in the commentary. All right. So guys, that that is that is the uh photo theology study bible. And that's not everything on the study Bible tab, but I'm just showing you bits and pieces. Okay. Um, let me scroll over very quickly to the devotionals.

I'm going to show you two more tabs. Uh, the devotionals and I will also show you um, one more tab and I'll show you what that is in a second. So, let me click on the devotionals. And guys, in the devotional tab, this is this is really this is really neat, y'all. So in the devotional tab, I can create ask uh the software to create a devotion for me for the day. A quick devotion. I can create a devotional plan. Hey, I would like a devotion um taking me for the next six weeks through the sanctuary or through the last week of Christ's life or through the Exodus.

These are just already kind of like subjects you can choose or you can create your own subject, you guys. I'm just saying. I'm just saying y'all. I'm just saying. Okay. So, I can also create a profile. So, let's say that there's someone I know that, you know, [clears throat] may be going through a difficult time, may be going through a difficult part in their Christian journey. um maybe struggling with something or just, you know, I know what this person's going through and I want to create a s a devotional um series just for this person.

If I click create profile, I can choose to create a profile for an individual. I could do it for a classroom. If you're a teacher, I could do it for a family. You could have a devote you could create a a dating devotion. You can create a spousal devotion. Um, you can put the person's name. You can say, "Here's the relationship. Here's my relationship to the person. Here's the age group of the person." And after you choose all of this, it's then going to ask you, okay, uh, so let me just go, let's say individual.

I'm just going to say Henry. Uh, I'll pick, um, an avatar. I'm going to say Henry is a friend. Uh he is between the age of 31 and 60. And then what it's then going to do, it's going to give me categories. What's Henry going through? Um is he dealing with any of these issues right here? You see all these issues? Is he is he dealing with any of these struggles? And then you So Henry uh Henry is my friend that just lost his job and is really discouraged. And you go and then you go ahead and click create commentary.

And it's going to ask you do you want to I mean commentary create devotional. And it's going to ask you uh is this devotional for 7 days, 14 days, 21 days, 40 days, how long do you want it? And then it'll create a devotion. And every day it will produce a devotional that you can then text or email to that friend, to that child, to that parent, whoever it might be. this devotional aspect of the app, guys, is very powerful because it is a really neat way to be able to minister to people on a daily basis, just sending them devotions of encouragement.

Um, all right. So, let me show you one more one more, guys. One more tab. I'm going to show you this uh analyze my thoughts tab. So, I just clicked on analyze my thoughts. And this is another one of my very favorite um very favorite tabs, you guys. So, in this on this page, let's say that I have a thought, right? I'm like, h now it's not a question. You can ask a question. But this is for thought. So for example, um I just preached a sermon this past week on um the priesthood of Melzdc and how when Jesus says um except you be born again, you cannot enter the kingdom of God.

And my thought was so let me let me share with you my thought. So I wonder if uh Jesus saying that one must be born again can connect with the labor and also uh connect with the idea that only priests could um wash at the labor and thus only priests could enter into the presence of God of God. So when uh Jesus is inviting us um to be born again, he is inviting us to be priests. Okay. Um Elena, yes. Uh so I just mentioned that a little bit earlier. Maybe you just jumped on, but yes, Spirit of Prophecy is is available here.

Um, all right. So, uh, I'm gonna go ahead and scroll down. Now, I want you to see this. I can ask G's. By the way, you see these things right here? These are called sparks. So, a spark is basically as you're typing what you're typing out, the software is thinking, "Oh, that's a good thought, and here's a connection for that thought." So, every time you see one of these sparks, it's basically the software responding in real time to what you're writing. All right, just so that you know when you see these pop up, it's it's continually teaching you, hey, what about this connection?

What about this connection? Again, again, it's not thinking for you, but it's it's trying to get you to expand the way you think about the Bible. All right? So, I put in my thought and I can say, "Hey, add a layer. I want you to add sanctuary typology. I want you to add parallels or patterns or the great controversy theme or feast connections." I can choose any one of these, but I'm just going to go ahead and go down. I can click analyze my thought or I can turn on scholar mode. And then I'm going to click analyze.

And what's going to happen is that it will analyze this thought. And analyzing the thought is going to tell me, well, let me just let it pop up. all right. I'm kind of Give me one second here. Okay, here we go. Okay. here is the analysis of my thought, right? Um, analysis an analysis of Christ statement born again is central to the new covenant spiritual uh spiritual transformation the term and it begins to go on and it's just giving me a whole breakdown of my thought an entire breakdown of my thought here's 0.1 here's point 2 and obviously because of time I'm not going to read through here's three, right?

It's giving me verse connections. Um, then it's going to bring all of the thought together. The student has made a highly and a highly insightful and theologically robust connection. The journey from the literal labor to spiritual rebirth and from an exclusion an exclusive priesthood to the priesthood of all believers demonstrates a profound understanding of progressive revelation and typology. The sanctuary with this ritual washing at the labor serve as a powerful pedal pedagalog pedigog Oh boy, we gonna ped Oh boy, I'm getting tongue tied.

I'm sorry y'all. Tool to teach Israel about this necessity of purification for approaching a holy God and for priesthood service. What was limited and ritualistic in the old covenant finds its expansive and spiritual fulfillment in the new covenant through Christ. Being born again of water and of spirit is precisely the limitation into this royal priesthood, empowering believers to draw near to God and offer spiritual sacrifices. So final verdict is going to tell me, hey, lean into this, tighten this, avoid this.

You guys, when I tell you that this software is amazing and here's the here's the score. Doctrinal integrity 92, right? Biblical accuracy, theological depth, all of this. Now, uh here are the strengths of the thought. Here are areas of growth and then misinterpretations to avoid um palace mapping. So what are the principles that were used uh in this in this thought of or can be connected to this thought? Typo typical layers. Whoa, my tongue is having a tough time tonight. And [clears throat] hold on.

Deeper insights you may have missed. So now it's going to say, have you thought about this? Have you thought about that? For example, the name Nicodemus or the labor's washing wa the labor's water used for cleansing can be connected to the ongoing battle against the seed of the serpent. And it goes on to explain why, right? All of this you guys just from the analyze my thought. Now, it's going to give you verses, further study, etc. Encouragement from Jes. Now, you can continue the conversation.

Okay, I like this. So, let me ask this then. And as you go on, it's going to continue the conversation. You can save your analysis. If I scroll all the way back up to the top here um with this thought, okay, you're going to see several more options. So, for example, um [clears throat] you can click save to gems. Now, you might remember on the first floor of the palace, there was a gems room. And the gems room is where you kind of store little aha moments that you get like, "Oh man, that's a gem.

I can use that at some point in the future for a sermon, for a Bible study. I don't want to forget that gem. I'm storing it in the gems room." You can take this analysis, right, and store it in the gems room. You could save it to your studies. You can export this study. Now, I want to show you this real quick. Drill this thought. Drill this thought. So, under the under the uh analyze my thoughts tab, if I click drill this thought, what it's going to do [cough and clears throat] is it's going to take this thought and it's now going to funnel that thought through all 37 rooms of the palace.

This is what is also called the gather the fragments tab. Gather the fragments tab. So remember when Jesus said to the disciples, "Gather the fragments that remain that nothing be lost." The whole idea behind gathering the fragments is the ability to take, for example, the shortest verse in the Bible, Jesus wept, and and expound and drill that text until you are you are able to connect it in a far greater capacity with other truths of the Bible than just going, "Oh, Jesus wept. That's all there is to that text.

Let me move on." Drilling the thought is taking a particular thought and basically funneling it through all 37 rooms of the palace. That's what it's doing right now. It's actually searching through all 37 rooms. Now, let me say this. Remember that in each room there are multiple principles. So, I can I can redrill. What it's going to do in this first drill is it's going to choose one principle from every room and then come together with a package. I can redrill the entire I can redrill the same text and now it's going to go through a total new set of principles from each room and bring it to another uh uh bring a whole another conclusion based upon that thought.

You can drill a text, you can drill a thought. I need y'all to see how deep this thing goes. Everybody, once again, I'mma put it in the chat so you can see uh where you can you can experiment with the app. You got seven days you can just experiment with the app. It is and I'm going to get ready to jump off here, guys, because I'm on longer than I intended. But um here is here is the site photoologybible.com. Okay, there it is right there. Um, so you guys the purpose of this of this this software is it's not just an esort where you can look up definitions and you know look up Bible verses.

It's not just a logos where you can do that and look at different commentaries. But this software, this program is helping you to learn how to think, how to think photo theologically. It's not designed to to study for you. It's designed to help you go beneath the surface. All right. [clears throat] So guys, [cough] this is a short I know I said short just now, but this is a short overview of the app. All right. Um the next time we talk, I will share with you about the community page. I will share you with you about the research option, the sermon builder, which does not write your sermons for you.

It only helps you. Um, you can create series if you're trying to do a Bible study. You're trying to lead out a Bible study for a small group or you want to lead out a Bible study for a classroom or, you know, for a a Sabbath school series or whatever it might be. You can actually create your own series of Bible studies. Um there's the achievement page uh which shows you kind of tracks how you're doing in the app, what you're doing, what you've accomplished in the app. Um there is the encyclopedia, there is your your personal notes there, all the different libraries.

There is the game page. I haven't even t there is the game page. You can see the different people leading in what games that they've been playing. But there are different games all based on all based on a photoology palace that is teaching you um that is teaching you how to use the photoology principles in game form. I'm going to go ahead and lock it out here, guys. Uh, if any of you have any questions, um, if you have any issues with the app, if you're in the app, email me through the app. If you're not in the app, email me at a burninghammergmail.com.

You got questions, hey, I'm trying to get on and I may be having this I'm having this issue or whatever, email me at a burninghammergmail.com. Let me put it in the chat for you. And I hope you guys put a one in the chat if you are excited about this app because listen y'all, I I've been working on this thing for quite some time. And boy, um I'm excited every time I use this software. I'm excited every time I use this thing. Um okay, so here's my email address, guys. and then we're going to go ahead and wrap this up.

So, all right. So, for some reason, I'm unable to put my email in here, but I'll put it in the link underneath this video, but again, a burning hammer atgmail.com. Now, [clears throat] uh Nadet, I hope I said that right. This is there is a lot. It's a palace, right? It's a palace. So, there's going to be a lot of rooms and there's going to be a lot to explore. So, [snorts] keep that in mind as you're look. You're like, "Look at all these tabs. Look at all these things this thing can do." Just start small.

start with something that you're like, "Okay, uh let me start with the devotions or let me start with just using the the the photo theology study Bible or let me just start on the reading plan, right?" Uh uh just start small and don't be overwhelmed at how much this software can do. Okay? Um the more you use it, the more familiar you are going to become with it. Go to the palace. go to the rooms and just stay locked in on a room. Just say, "All right, teach me uh help me to understand this connect six room or you know the the mathematics room or the dimensions room."

And yes, the spirit will help you navigate. All right, guys. So, um with that said, by the way, yes, there is a subscription. Now, let me say this. I and I thank you for asking. For those of you that are on that are already um subscribers on my Patreon account, you're in the photo theology class, um you're subscribing at at uh one of the levels of uh of my Patreon page. This Bible software will be available to you without extra charge. If you're already a Patreon and you're in one of my uh one of my classes, one of my courses, you're supporting the ministry um at a certain level, you you will have access, as long as you're in Patreon, you will have access to this without having to subscribe um and pay anything extra.

This is this is um this money this this software costs money monthly to keep up and going. So that's why there's a subscription um for those of you that are not in the Patreon. And by the way, oh boy, I will put my Patreon page um underneath the link in this tab. Now, if you decide to sign up on my Patreon account, you're not only going to get the app, you're also going to get access to other things that we have on Patreon, right? So, that's classes, courses, etc. If you're a patron, you don't need to subscribe to this app.

You will get automatic access to this app. And if you want to become a patron to get access to this app, as well as the other stuff, my my courses, etc., ETA, you can go to the Patreon page. It's um I'm going to put it in the link uh because I cannot for some reason can't type in the chat right now and I'm not sure why. Um if you are not on my Patreon page, then there are you have a 7-day free trial and then there are two subscriptions. You can either do the $9 subscription, which is the essential, or you can do the $15 a month subscription in which you get access to everything.

Um, that's including the audio bible, the audio bible commentary. Uh, so those are the three you it's you can test it out for seven days, the full thing um for free, seven days. So, those are the ways you get access um to the software. Uh, okay guys, [clears throat] with that said, I'm going to go ahead and close out. Um, I hope that you guys have uh enjoyed what you have heard tonight. Uh, once in the in the software, you can communicate, you know, with uh with other people in the app. So, it's also um um interactive uh in multiple ways.

Get on it, guys. Use it and take your Bible study to a whole new level. All right. Peace. God bless you. And uh I will see you all on the next I'm going to, by the way, I'll make a playlist on my YouTube channel just for the photo theology study app. What I'm going to be doing is I'm going to be going through each room and just using the app to show you the principles of each room. So, I'm gonna kind of be taking you through the photo theology principles while showing how the app works with it. All right.

So, guys, with that said, God bless you and uh have a good evening, have a good week. Uh until next time, you all be blessed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Be blessed. Remember, I'll put the Patreon link uh up in the video in the description of the video after the video is over. All right.