All right. Testing one, two. Testing one, two. Uh, you guys can hear me now. Should be should be much better. I was actually on the wrong mic just now. So, uh, All right, y'all. Okay, I was just about to go uh go off camera again and see if I could get this thing working. So, we are good to go. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. Um, all right, guys. So, uh, we're going to be, um, just going, uh, going over some more of the photo theology Bible study suite tonight. By the way, uh, how many of you have been able to watch the story of the T horns?

You all put a five in the chat if you were able to watch the story of the T horns. That is the live that we did uh Friday Friday night. Friday night. And um if you haven't gotten an opportunity to go and watch that, please make sure that you go back. It is on my YouTube channel. Please make sure that you go back and watch that. It is a It is a mustsee. Not a shouldsee, but a mustsee. Okay. Um, so guys, let's jump in. Let's jump in and I'm going to go ahead and share my screen. Um, all right. There we go.

So once again guys, this is the photo theology study bible. Um, and uh the website, let me just go ahead and put it in the chat so you guys know how to access it. Um, it is uh the photoologybible.com. All right. So, you should see it there in uh in the chat. And uh what I want to do today is again just go over a little bit of the um the abilities of this study Bible. Okay? And I'm going to say this as well, guys. So, I don't know if I shared this uh I don't know if I shared this um the last time that I was on uh but maybe I shared it with my actual photo theology class.

So, you guys, I typically use ESORD when I'm putting together my sermons and doing my Bible studies. And as I was creating this um uh this software, I'm sorry, I put it in the wrong uh place. Let me just uh Okay, there you go. So, as I was uh I've been putting together this this study tool um for probably the last two months. And when I started the goal was to put together a study tool for my class, right? So, for um those who are in my photo theology class and other people that wanted to use this app, but you know, for me, I was like, I'm not going to use this.

I'm sorry. I'm not going to use this app just because, you know, um what I already this is how I think. So, I'm just, you know, I have no need to use this app. And so, I would be working on the app, trying to, you know, create the app for my class. for those interested. But then when I'm doing my own Bible study, I just go back to Esword and I'm just doing my thing, whatever. And then I was like, you know what? If I'm making this app, why would I not make it so that I myself would like actually use this app right while I am putting together um my studies etc.

And so I began to do that. I was like, well, what what would I do that would make me replace using E sword with, you know, replace this for E sword? And over the last again several several weeks, this is what I began to do. And I I'm letting you know guys that this um this app is really really really powerful. Um uh it is I've designed it at this point um as a tool uh not only that other people could use but that I use myself. Okay. And um it is uh pretty robust. Pretty robust. So let me uh I'm going to walk you through.

So, like I said, every Sunday I'm going to get on and just do a quick walkthrough of different things the app can do. Um, and I'm going to show you some things uh tonight. So, let me go back to uh we're going to go to the palace. So, once again, the palace tab and let me just scroll through here. All right, these are all the different tabs of all that this Bible software does. I had mentioned this a little bit earlier or or at least last week that this study I was calling it an app at first, but an app really gives an a in an insufficient concept.

It makes it it is misleading. You can use it on your phone, sure. But I will tell you that um just like with, you know, when I'm using Esort or Logos or whatever Bible software, I'm typically using it on my computer. if you're serious about getting into the word of God. again, you can use it on your phone, but I found the desktop to be just a lot more uh user friendly for deep Bible study. Okay, so um again, these are all the different tabs that are in this um this software and I want to take you I want to take you here uh back to the palace for a little while.

Okay. So, here is the palace, the palace tab. And what the palace tab is is it basically describes the concept of the entire palace, right? You will find on this page that the photoology palace has eight floors. So here's the first floor, second, third, all the way down to the eighth floor. There are eight floors and each floor uh has different rooms. And these different rooms um contain principles that we apply to the Bible when we're studying any given text, any given passage, etc. Um I did go over this last week, but I just want to run over it again quickly with you guys.

Okay. So, in the story room, that's the first room on the first floor. Uh the whole goal of this room is basically to um to equip yourself or equip your palace, furnish your palace with as many stories of the Bible um that you can store in that room. The whole idea behind this is the more stories you have stored in the story room, the more you have to pull from when it comes time to actually do Bible study. So, uh, the story room in this app is basically designed to teach you how to just remember the basic tenants of a story, right?

So, for example, if I click on story sequence uh, gallery, right? It'll say, "Choose one chapter from Genesis. Create five distinct frames or major events within that story. Add symbolic visual elements to each frame. Practice recalling the story through your images." Right? Pretty simple, pretty straightforward. Um, and as you scroll down, you're just going to see like different exercises, right? You'll see graphics, um, you'll see examples. So, if I click on this example tab, uh, here is Genesis 37.

And here's how it breaks down the story of Genesis 37. It's Joseph, there's dream, there's a coat, pit, caravan, Egypt, Piper, right? So, you're remembering the basic elements of the story just by okay, here are the here are the the uh, you know, maybe four or five points in the story that I want to remember in sequence. so that I can have this story basically locked in. If I go to the to the um to the Bible story library, you will see that it is populated with different stories from the Bible. Right?

So, if I click on Genesis and I scroll down, you'll just see it's not going into the detail of the story. It's just giving you like a basic uh uh description of what's happening in these various stories. Right? So, the whole goal of the story room as I teach my photo theology class is [clears throat] not to necessarily understand the stories right away and their spiritual significance, but it's just to get the stories in the palace. Right? the more stories I have in the palace, um, the the better my study will be as I begin to go through the palace.

So, I'm going to go back and I want to go now to the imagination room. And in the imagination room, guys, this is kind of like a quick tutorial which I'm going to be doing. Uh, it is a quick tutorial on the principles of of the palace, right? So the imagination room is really designed to teach you how to use your imagination as you are studying the text. Right? So if you're looking at the story of the Exodus, um you're training your mind to imagine like walk through the story of Exodus as if you were there, right?

Think of it as godly imagination. You're using your imagination to help enhance the text, right? Imagine being in the garden of Gethsemane where Jesus is praying and and in your imagination in in your imagination, see the anguish that Jesus is going through in the garden as he prays. There's something very powerful about imagining using godly imagination when you apply to the Bible. It it kind of seasons a text, right? Seasons a story, adds life to a story that you typically wouldn't get just reading the text, right, without applying like, man, what must that have felt like as they're walking through the Red Sea and, you know, the droplets of water maybe just splashing, you know, across their brow or whatever.

you're you're you're thinking through what must it have been like, right? You're giving it an added dimension when you use the imagination room. So again, nothing really uh nothing like whoa, what is that? It's just learning to use pictures. Remember, the whole theme of photo theology is that a picture is worth a thousand words. If I'm training my mind to learn to think in pictures, right, I'm going to be able to memorize, I'm going to be able to understand uh a lot more of the scriptures because I'm using a method that works with the brain.

A picture is worth a thousand words. So again, you go through the imagination room and you'll just see they're telling you different things like, you know, uh uh using your imagination, you know, to apply to this story of the Bible or that story of the Bible, etc. Okay, so um not too much detail there. These rooms on the first floor are very simple. Okay, very simple. Um the 24 frames per second room. Now, many of you are probably familiar with this concept from the photo theology palace. I've been on multiple times talking about this 24 frames per second.

But the whole idea is to take one chapter of the Bible at a time and translate that chapter, the theme of that chapter into one image. And you want to do this for 24 chapters at a time. So, if I begin Genesis 1- 24, um, and I'm going to take one verse or one chapter, chapter 1, and say, "Okay, what image can I use to summarize what Genesis chapter 1 is all about?" I can make that image as vivid as I as I possibly can. And I every time I see that image, I'm going to remember, oh, Genesis 1 is about creation.

And this is what you're doing 24 chapters at a time. So you're actually learning uh you're trying to memorize Genesis 1- 24. So that you know if I say Genesis chapter 17 to you, you're going to be able to say, "Oh yeah, that's where Abraham is circumcised." Or if I say Genesis chapter 19, you're going to be you're going to be able to say, "Oh yeah, that's where Sodom and Gomorrah are destroyed." Right? You're learning to think in pictures. So the the 24 frames per second room does just this, right?

And as you can see here, the 24 sets are already broken up, right? If I click on these 24, you're going to see that it's already populated with images, right? It's already populated with images. Now, I'm going to show you something else. Uh, I'm going to come back up to the top here and I just want to go over to the PT photoology image bible just for a minute. And if I click on a photo theology image bible, um, it's now it's now not breaking these uh these up into 24 frames per second or 24 chapters at a time.

Uh, it's actually just doing it by book. So I can scroll down and say I want to study the book. I want to memorize the book of Esther, the chapters of Esther. And if I click on study this book, um you'll see it pop up and you can actually test yourself using these images, right? Um and it'll tell you, hey, this chapter is about this thing right here. It's going to tell you what the image is. If I click flip the card, it's going to tell you, okay, here's what's happening in this image, and here's why the here's why you're using this image, right?

to connect with this particular chapter. So this is for the entire Bible, right? So it is the tab is called the PT image Bible, the photo theology image bible. And as I scroll down, scroll down, scroll down, this is going all the way to the book of revelation. meaning you can you can you can strive to memorize the themes of every chapter of the Bible just by memorizing the images. You're not memorizing words, you're memorizing themes. Okay, so that's the 24 frames per second room and the uh what we just talked about the the photo theology um image bible.

Okay. So, just if y'all are following, put a one in the chat. I want to make sure that y'all, if you have any questions, by the way, ask it in the chat. Okay. Ask it in the chat. Um, let me come back to the palace tab and I'm going to go down to the Bible rendered room. And in the Bible rendered room, it's the same principle, but this time I'm using I'm taking all 24 chapters. So remember, we're doing 24 chapters at a time. This time you're taking the 24 chapters, Genesis 1- 24, and now you're saying, what is the major theme of these 24 chapters?

I want to juice that theme down into one image. And as I look at Genesis 1 and I scan Genesis 1- 24 and I look at the theme of these 24 chapters, you will find that the theme is division. You have Adam and Eve separating from God. You have Cain and Abel. You have uh the serpent and the seed. You have uh Abraham or you have uh um the tower of Babel. You have uh Noah in the flood. You have um uh uh Abraham and Lot. You have Abraham coming out of of um of right? You've got all this separation happening.

Um, I said Abraham and Lot, uh, Isaac and Ishmamail. The theme is division. So, what you do is you take those 24 chapters and now you say, I'm just going to use one symbol, the division sign, to remind me that these first 24 chapters of the book of the Bible, the theme is division. If you go from Genesis 25 to the end of the book of Genesis, you will find that everything there is about multiplication. So that by the end of the book, you have Israel as a great multitude in Egypt. So now I'm going to use the multiplication sign to to summarize the last half of the book of Genesis.

And suddenly now between the division sign and the multiplication sign, I have now basically skimmed the entire book of Genesis in in under a second just by you memorizing the themes and going, "Yeah, division, multiplication, and then you're doing this for the entire Bible." Meaning if you can memorize these 50 images, 51 images that are covering 24 chapters at a time with the exception of Genesis 25-50, but are covering 24 chapters at a time. You can actually scan the entire Bible just by um just by memorizing the 20 the the 50 images.

You can run through the entire story of the Bible in under a minute. If you get the images down where you're like, "Yep, that image means that. That image represents this. That image represents this time period, etc." You can actually scan the entire Bible in like 30 seconds or less in your mind. You guys, that is absolutely crazy. And we've done it in class over and over and over and people are stunned like how do we just do that? Okay, so that is the palace room. Um, and now I'm going to hit go back to the tab.

Uh, I'm sorry. Did I say that's a palace room? That is the Bible rendered room. Let me go to two other rooms very quickly and then I'm going to show you one more thing and then we're going to wrap this up. Okay. So, back on the palace tab, first floor again. Um, I want to go to the translation room and let me talk to you a little bit about the translation room. So, in the translation room, right, you are not translating verses. You're not translating like Hebrew to Greek or Greek. You're not translating language.

You're translating words into images. So the idea behind this this room is basically learning how to take a text and then if you had to explain that text just using pictures, an image, a storyline, how would you explain that text? And so um that is what this room is designed to do, right? You're you're practicing to translate verses into images. Why? Because a picture is worth a thousand words. So I'm going give you an example. If I put in here Romans chapter 8 verse1 translate to word picture and here is the word therefore.

There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. And here is the image that um that is produced. Now remember this is designed to help you, right? You don't have to use this image, but it's designed to give you an example. Here's the example. A courtroom appears. A judge sits on a high bench. An accused person stands before the judge. A heavy book of law of laws lie open. A long scroll displays all the accused wrong deeds. The accused head hangs low. Condemnation is a heavy shadow.

Then a figure steps forward. That figure is Christ Jesus. He stands directly in front of the accused. His he envelopes the accused in his presence. The shadow of condemnation dissipates. The judge looks down from the bench. The judge sees only Christ Jesus. The scroll of the wrong deeds vanish. A clean bank blank paper is seen. No charges remain written. The accused is now hidden with Christ. No condemnation can reach them there. Okay. So, um, so, uh, who is that? Mimi Moore 11. I just see I see what you just said.

If you, um, if you will send me an email, I'm going to make sure that, uh, you're not getting that error message that you need to uh, that you need to uh to update your trial. Okay? So, contact me through the app or in fact, I have your email address. Yeah, if you contact me through the app so I can get your email address, I will get that cleared up so you can uh you'll no longer see that sign as you sign in and log into the to the software. Okay. All right. Um uh that's right. The the 24 uh the Genesis Highrise, it's built off of the 24 frames per second room.

Okay. So, let me go back to the let me go back to the um to the translation room. This is what the translation room does. Um the address for the software you guys is once again it is photoologybible.com. If you look up in the chat you will see it there. Just scroll up and you will see the site photoologybible.com. So again, any verse that I put into this, say, "Hey, I want to translate this." It'll translate it for me. And again, I can choose to use that as a I like that image. Or I can say, you know what?

I want to come up with my own um my own picture, right? My own translation for this particular verse. All right. So that is the translation room. I'm going to share with you one more room and then I'm going to share with you an exercise and I'm going to need your your help with this, okay? Cuz we're going to do a quick Bible study. Y'all down for a Bible study? This is going to be real quick. Not an in-depth study, but it will be an in-depth study at the same time. You'll see what I mean. Um, so back on the first floor here is the gems room.

So, what is a gem? Um, a gem is that special aha moment where you're like, "Oh man, I uh I never saw this verse like this before. I never saw this story like this before. Oh man, I never saw that connection between this verse and this verse before." It's that aha moment when [clears throat] I was um just becoming uh an Adventist. I remember, you know, having still in still being in the hip-hop industry and being rappers, we would have our little notepads and every time a lyric, right, a thought came to mind, we would take out and start writing down our lyrics.

But when I started becoming Christian, I was doing the same thing. Instead of writing down lyrics only, now I was writing down, oh man, I Whoa, Genesis 3:15. Oh man, I never saw Genesis 3:15. The I whoa, the Lord just gave me something powerful and I would write it down. It was a gem. Okay, so the gem room is basically that room where we collect all of those aha moments. You're gonna get some of those aha moments while using this Bible software. You might get them while you're out at work, wherever.

But the whole idea of the gems room is collecting these gems so that you don't forget them. When you're using the app and a thought hits you or you know, you're doing a a study on the my study tab and something pops up where you're like, "Oh man, this is deep." You can actually say, "Save this as a gem." and it'll automatically save it to the gems library. Okay, the gems library. And so you can see here there are, you know, a few like sample gems that are already in the gems library. But as you're using the software and you're you're learning things and and you know uh uh coming into greater understanding, you can always say, man, this is a gem.

I want to save this as a gem. And it'll automatically save. Okay. Now, now I'm going to take you over to the study buddy tab right here. The study buddy tab. And what is the study buddy tab? So, the study buddy tab. Imagine imagine having a um that friend that you're you're doing a study and you're like, "Yo, have you ever thought of this this this and this?" And yeah just a messenger it is my experience right that uh using this on the desktop on a laptop is a lot more user friendly than it is on the phone.

You can use it on the phone. I've used it on the phone. But people who who think, "Oh, it's just a phone app." And they're using on the phone and they're like, "Okay, what?" When they see it for the first time on a desktop, they're like, "Oh, wow. I I didn't know that all this was here." Okay. So, I'm I'm I'm plugging the desktop version, but I'm not against the phone version. Okay? I I have them both, but I know like for me, like I said, when I'm if you are trying to like really utilize this, uh it's going to be a lot more efficient on a desktop.

Okay. So, what is the study buddy tab? The study buddy is, like I was saying, imagine that that friend that you know you can call up. You're like, "Man, I'm going through this study and I was thinking this thought." And then your friend is like, "Oh, wait a minute. Have you thought about this? Have you thought about maybe connecting this with that?" And then you're like, "Wait, what?" And you know, you're going back and forth. That is that is the purpose of the study buddy. Okay. So, I'm going to I actually was just before we got on, I got on I said, "Hey, listen.

I I we just need to start over. Let me let me go ahead and just start from scratch. And I'm going to ask you guys, okay? Hey guys, what would you like to study? Give me something, a verse, a uh a story, a parable, just just whatever. Just whatever. Again, um the address for the app is the Bible is uh photoologybible.com. It is in the chat. I will put it in the in the uh link underneath the video once this is uploaded, but it is Okay. So, what do y'all want to study? And we're not about to do a whole study, you guys, but I'm just showing you an example.

You're you're you know saying to yourself today, hey, you know what? I want to study what? Put it in the chat. Give me the verse. Give me the parable. Give me the thought. May not even be a verse or a p. It's just a thought. Man, I want to study, you know, um, how does righteousness relate to the sanctuary. So, I'm waiting for for y'all to to put something in the chat. Or I might just go with that. I might just go with that. So let let me let me do this. I'm going to say um okay um all right. So I'm going to study the connection between the sanctuary Yeah, my computer's freezing up.

I got to give it a second here. Yeah, my my computer's uh giving me a little bit of uh some issues over the last several weeks. So, let me let it get its time to unfreeze itself. And if not, then I might just All right, y'all. Well, my computer is definitely just frozen up uh for no reason, but now's a good time to see what y'all are putting in the chat. John 17:17, the unjust steward, the fruits of the spirit. Um, wow, my page isn't even reloading. So, let me go back to study buddy. All right. So, let's do John 17:17 in connection with the sanctuary.

Oh, John 17:17. So I want you to see when I put John 17:17 that it just populated the text immediately. Um so let's say I want to study John uh 17:17. oh it's it's bringing up Jonah 17. That's why. Okay, let me rephrase that. Sorry. So John let's study this in the context of the sanctuary. Okay. Now I want you to notice what's going on here. So I just put let's study this in the context of the sanctuary. And I want you to notice what's happening as I'm typing. So I want you to look over here. Uh where Jes is actually looking at what you're writing.

It says this brilliant. You've stumbled onto something wonderful. Moving from All right. Kind of thought I was talking about Jonah's story, but we're not. We're talking about John 17:17 is a mass. Okay. So, it just connected Jonah and John 17, which I did not intend for it to do, but let's go with it. So, uh it's as if you're following the path of the priest moving from the depths of death and sacrifice Jonah and the altar into the refined atmosphere of the sanctuary proper. So, I just want you to see, [laughter] man, I do y'all see what just happened?

So, what is just done accidentally? Because I thought I was saying I want to study Jonas uh Jonah in the belly of the the belly of the whale with John 17:17 in the context of the sanctuary. And it's just given me a seed thought that Jonah's experience is in essence a parallel of Christ's experience at the altar of sacrifice which I've just I mean of course you you think about Jonah that's death but like to actually connect the story of Jonah with the sacrifice of Christ at the altar of sacrifice in the context of the I'm already like, okay, I have a seed that I can now I can now say, all right, good.

Thank you. I already know what my next sermon is going to be. Jonah and the altar of sacrifice. And and I may just go and say, "Okay, I'm going to take the the the altar of sacrifice. I'm going to take the story of Jonah and I'm going to look at all the ways that that or all the parallels I can find between the altar of sacrifice and Jonah's story. Okay. Now, uh Lisa, I see your your your uh question. By the way, I I let me share this. No, I'll come back to that in a moment. I'm for you for all of you who are on Patreon.

I'm gonna um speak to you in a moment about getting access to the to the software. Okay. So, I'm gonna continue on what it says. Right. When Jesus says set them apart in truth, he's using sanctuary language. In the Old Testament, things weren't just good, they were holy because they were physically set apart for God's use. By calling the word truth, he's making the Bible our environment, our tabernacle. Then it says, "I'm curious what drew you to connect these two specifically." Well, you guys, I didn't connect these two specifically, but you see what's happening, right?

Accidentally. Accidentally, we now have a study on Jesus saying, "Set them apart by thy word." And remember, the sanctuary is designed to set apart, to sanctify a people unto God. And so now you have this connection of wait a minute. So in order for me to be set aside, I too have to experience that Jonah story. Not necessarily running away from God, but having that death, burial, resurrection experience that sets me aside to be able to experience the sanctuary. Now guys, we're just freestyling, right?

I listen, the purpose of this the purpose of this note section, right, is for you to actually keep writing. I've only written one sentence. One sentence, y'all. And I'm going to show you what's coming next. What is the idea of being Now, by the way, if you do this 20 times, it's going to give you to it's never going to give you the same thing. It's dynamic. What is it doing? It's actually pulling from the photo theology principles and applying it to the text in real time. Okay. So, it goes on to say, uh, what is the idea of being hidden in the fish and hidden in truth?

It's a marvelous thought to chew on. Shall we see if we can find the furniture of the tabernacle hidden in these verses in John 17? So, it's giving you different ideas, right? different uh uh uh concepts that you can say, hey, I want to follow that line of reasoning. I want to follow that thought. Let me go down to this sparks section. So, what is a spark? You will see as you're in any section of the Bible, right? You will see that any section of the of the software that you may be typing something out and you'll see something pop up that looks like this and it's called a spark.

what's happening when you're when you're writing a thought out, when you're writing a study out. And remember, this software is not designed to write your study for you. It is designed to help you think outside the box. That's what it's doing right now. So, when a spark comes up, it's basically the the the software saying, "Wait a minute, have you thought about connecting what you just said with this or that, etc.?" If you're putting together your sermon in this software and as you're writing out some powerful thought, you're going to see sparks coming up in the top right hand corner.

If you hit on that spark, it's going to say what you just said about this, this, this, and this is a powerful idea. Or it might not be a powerful idea, but it's going to say, have you thought about connecting that with this? Have you thought about applying this principle from the palace to this? And basically you guys what ends up happening is whereas one study might have you just on a you know on a single track of okay that was a good study and I'm done. Now from one study you are having multiple seeds planted that you could follow days later weeks later months later years later.

Let me keep reading. So uh the set them apart sanctification in John 17 in John 17 parallels the swallowing of Jonah both involving both hidden away from the world in a specific vessel one in the fish the other in truth to be prepared for for a mission. You know that is so interesting. I've never thought about um Jonah being hidden in the belly of the fish. It's almost as if when we die, we are that concept of being hidden in Christ only comes about as we die in Christ. Right? When we are dead in Christ, we are hidden in him.

It's a thought I've never had before. Um, but using the photo theology principles of saying, have you considered this? Have you considered that I when Paul says I'm crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ that lives in me. That when we are dead and hidden in him, which you guys is what happens when we enter the sanctuary. When we enter the sanctuary, we are hidden as it were from the world. We are hidden as it were from the old ways. The sanctuary is the thing that separates us from the world.

Is the thing that invites us to die to self. Is the thing that is in essence supposed to swallow us up. Yeah. Yeah. Let me keep going. in the sanctuary, the word is the most lit. It is most literally found inside the ark of the covenant. The 10 words to be set apart in the word is to be placed within the holy of holies. You guys, these are all these are all just different. Like, hey, if you're studying these two, consider this connection. Consider this connection. Consider this connection. Now the software just said the word of God was most literally found in the ark in the most holy place.

Thus to be set aside by the word is in essence to be set aside within that mo within that ark. It is the ark of the covenant wherein the word of God is found that God desires ultimately to set us aside and sanctify us and make us most holy. He that dwelleth in a secret place of the most high shall abide under the shadow of the almighty. Now listen you guys. Um once again what I want you to see is we were initially just going to study set them apart. You know set them aside by thy word by thy word.

Thy word is truth. and accidentally connected that with the story of Jonah. And now we're beginning to see this thought whoa like Jonah which is a a symbol of Christ's death which is ultim ultimately supposed to be a symbol of our death. When we are dead in Christ, we are hidden with him. We are hidden in him. We experience that death, burial, and resurrection. So that when we come out, when Jonah was was, you know, made it out of that three-day experience, he was a different person. Still not a perfect person, but he was a different person.

He was a man now intent on fulfilling the mission of God. Can it be that that spit that dying to self is meant to swallow up the old man? Whoa. Whoa, y'all. Can it be that in that Jonah experience, the old man dies and a new man comes in his place? Is this not what the altar of sacrifice is designed to do? Is this not what the sanctuary is designed to do? We go in one way and come out another. The old man dies and a new man comes out. So again, you guys, now listen this. I'm just going to scroll.

We're not going to read all this. I'm just going to scroll. This is all that's come up from one sentence. But remember when I've come to this to this study, I didn't come with just one sentence in mind, right? I'm kind of freestyling right now. What I'm saying is I already let's say I've already got like I know what I want to study and I got a bunch of thoughts going through my mind. So let's say all right, I said I want to let's study John 17:17. Let's study this in the context of the sanctuary.

I think I think that each article of furniture um is uh designed to set us apart in some way from the world. Okay. So now I've just enter you see I'm typing uh yes uh yes Franco the analyze my thought does something similar but it's a lot more it's it's a little bit different and I'll talk about that when we get to the analyze my thought app. This is more of an interactive the analyze my thought. It just gives you gives you everything at one time and says here's the strength of your thought da da da da da.

This is more interactive. Jeez is actually talking with you as you are doing this study. So what I just put I think that each article of furniture is designed to set us apart in some way from the world. Um let's see what happens here. All right. So, oh, what a marvelous uh intuition you've had. John 17. No, no, no. This is still John 17. Um, So, now we got a new spark. The word as the golden lampstand. Uh, the word as the golden lampstand. In the holy place, the only light comes from the oil fuel lamps.

If Jesus is the word and the light, John 1:1, then being set apart in truth is walking in the specific glow of the sanctuary rather than the natural sun of the outer court. In other words, the light of the candlestick it the Jesus now giving you a a concept, an idea. Okay, wait a minute. soul, the light of the candlestick in the holy place. There is something about that light and Jesus being the light of the world that is designed to set us apart and it's a spark. If I click explore this it will actually give me a little bit more information.

Okay. So now, as you can see, it's just refreshed. The sanctification process follows the priestly path. The washing, labor, eating bread, and shine and uh and shining. priestly path. Washing the labor, eating bread, and shining the lampstand. We're called to shine. Again, what you're seeing here is that every time you put in a verse, a text, you will see sparks come up. Every time you put in a thought, you're going to see a spark come up that says, "Okay, let's track this thought. let me give you something else that maybe you haven't thought about or let me amplify what you're saying by sharing this e etc.

And the power of this section you guys is that listen this is this is so far let me just remove this here. This is so far Two sentences from the study. Every time I write a new sentence, Jeeves, not Jesus. Jeez, is recalculating according to what I'm saying, what I'm writing, and then it's going to, hey, have you thought about this? What about this connection? What about that connection? So, as you can see, you guys, if you end up writing out, you know, man, I had these thoughts and you're you're writing these thoughts out and you're writing five, six, seven, 10, 10 sentences, I want you to imagine, just imagine, y'all get the picture.

Just imagine how much you can pull from using this particular page, the study buddy, to help amplify your your thoughts as you're studying, to help make connections that you may have never thought about making before. Jonah and Jesus and the altar of sacrifice, which opens up a whole study on being set apart and what the sanctuary, which is designed to sanctify us, meaning set us apart. And now you got a whole study. Now you got a whole series. Now you're taking each article of furniture in the sanctuary and you're showing how being set apart must be done through a process that must begin with a Jonah experience of dying, death, burial, and resurrection, which by the way is exactly what the altar of sacrifice and the labor, which are both in the outer court, demonstrate.

death at the altar of sacrifice, burial at the labor, and washing and resurrection at the labor. Both of those articles of furniture is the beginning experience of being sanctified and set aside. All right. So guys, um that's it. That's our lesson for today on the photo the photo theology Bible study suite. You can try it out for yourself. I haven't even finished everything that you can do on this page, but uh this is a this is a general overview of just this page, you guys. Just the study buddy.

Just the study buddy. I'm going to go ahead and show you this last thing here. So if you want to simmer this, [clears throat] let's say, hey, I want to take this idea um let's study the sanctuary and this connection um that sets us apart. I also want to connect Jonah's experience with the bornag again experience. Okay. And what I want to do, it's going to make comments. It's going to add comments about the born again experience uh in the in the uh in the sparks. So, you see it refreshing here. Uh Jonah's descent into the roots of the mountains reflects the deep the depth, the abyss, marrying the sanctuary's labor.

Uh, and it's going to go on and just bring up more thoughts. But I want to take this. I'm gonna copy and I'm going to go over to simmer and um I'm going to go ahead and uh I'm going to put in the theme Jonah uh Jonah's experience parallels the bornag again I'm going to hit start simmer and what this start simmer is going to do is it is going to through all 37 rooms of the photo theology palace. It's going to use a different principle in each room, but it's going to produce a simmer. So, it's going to just sit there and simmer, and when it's done, it's going to basically show you 37 different avenues, 37 different ways, 37 different routes you can take studying this one thought.

All right, I'm going to end it right here, you guys. Um, I'm going to put um my email in in the link. Okay, email me at um a burninghammergmail.com. For those of you that are on Patreon, by the way, if you're on Patreon, and I mentioned this before, if you are on Patreon or Teachable and you are currently uh on a subscription for the photo theology class, you automatically have free access to this software. um if if you are already on Patreon or if you are already um in any of my classes, Teachable, etc.

Um you already have access. You may not have this yet, but you have access. You don't have you have free access. It's not free, but you have access to this already because you're already subscribed. For those of you that are not subscribed, you can either subscribe to the app or you can subscribe, become a subscriber to Patreon and if you enter into one of my classes, you will automatically get access to the app. Okay, so I'm going to put my Patreon link um in the link under the video. I will also put the link to the Bible study uh page.

So, you will see both of those. Um for those of you that that are in Teachable, the same thing. And if any of you that are already in Patreon are having difficulty um getting access to the app for whatever reason, email me a burning hammer just as you spell it, a burning hammergmail.com. All right. All right, guys. That's it. Thank you. Um, this uh is again uh like I said, I'm using this now for my own personal study and I cannot tell you uh how like just absolutely amazing this thing is. Okay, so check it out.

You will not be disappointed. And again, guys, um I'm going to go ahead and wrap this up. Have a good evening and uh may God bless you and I will see you next Sunday as we will go into more detail and we're going to do some deeper Bible studies. We're going to start actually doing Bible studies with your help kind of like what we were doing with Freestyle Wednesdays, but we're going to be going through a more detailed process as I walk you through more um capabilities of this Bible software. All right.

yeah, Jonathan, look out for something from me, okay? I do have your number, so look out for something from from me, okay? All right. Blessings, everyone. Have a good rest of your evening.