Hey everyone, uh good evening and happy Sabbath to you. Uh y'all go ahead and put a one in the chat uh to let me know that you see me, you hear me. And uh just want to let you know that I am just jumping on. This is just going to be a a quick a quick uh little video um that uh I'm doing just to talk about the uh upcoming and that is Hey Renee, I see you. Um that is Naomi. Welcome. Welcome. Uh that is yes this is really live um but I'm going to be talking about the photo theology 7-day photo theology course that is coming up and it actually starts on Sunday.

so for those of you who have been following my ministry for any time um any significant time you know that uh photo theology is um a system that uh I have used um and used it to put my sermons together, put my Bible studies together. It is the way that I study the Bible and uh it is a very unique approach to the scriptures uh in which uh for those of you again that that um that have seen the system and understand the system know that this system is not a way of producing anything new. You do not learn anything new in this system.

you're you're simply seeing old truths from new perspectives, right? That is the purpose of photo theology. Um, in other words, think of it this way. Truth can be seen from a thousand different angles. And that's what photoology is all about, right? It's about learning how to see the Bible um from a thousand different angles. learning how to see the same truth from multiple perspectives. And so um this uh photoology course understanding photo theology in seven days is basically a juiced down uh condensed version of my longer photoology course.

Now I have been teaching uh photo theology um online for almost somewhere I think it's four or five years now and uh the class that I teach online they have been with me many many of them have been with me from the beginning we're still going through photo theology five years um uh into it and we're still learning so this 7-day class is really, you know, a lot of people jump into that that longer class and uh sometimes they're like, "Man, I I I've missed so much. Uh I kind of feel overwhelmed with this because I've missed so much."

Um this 7-day course is going to be the entire system juiced down into seven days. So let me tell you a little bit about the system. Um so uh think of it in in terms of a palace. Some of you may have heard me explain this before. Think of the photo theology system as a palace. In this palace there are seven floors and on each floor there are a series of rooms. Each room represents a principle of photo theology. And so altogether uh there are 32 rooms in the photo theology palace. Each one of these 32 rooms uh uh again represents a principle but it's not just one principle.

So for example uh on the third or on the fourth floor of the photo theology palace there is one room called the dimensions room. And in the dimensions room there are five different dimensions. There is the literal dimension, there is the Christ dimension, there is the me dimension, there is the church dimension and there is the heaven dimension. So what that means is how do I read the scriptures in each one of these dimensions? And the easiest easiest example uh that I like to use just to give you a quick understanding is the temple.

In the Old Testament, God instructed Moses to build a sanctuary and inside that sanctuary was the very presence of God. That is the first dimension, right? The literal dimension. The second dimension is basically asking the question, where is Christ or how does this relate to Christ? And we know that in the New Testament Jesus says, "Destroy this temple and I will raise it again in three days." He was talking about the temple of his body. So in the second dimension, Christ is the temple and the actual presence of God is dwelling in him.

Remember that in the Old Testament, the temple was in the center of the 12 tribes. So Jesus is in the center of the 12 disciples. Right? This is the second dimension. Christ is the temple. In the third dimension, um I am the temple. The Bible says, "Know you not that you are the temple of the Holy Ghost, right? And that the spirit of God dwells in you." So now we see three different dimensions, right? In other words, I can apply I when I'm studying the sanctuary, I can apply that sanctuary and all the aspects of the sanctuary into those dimensions.

In the Old Testament, there was in the Old Testament sanctuary, there was a literal candlestick. Christ is the light of the world. That's the second dimension. Jesus says in Matthew chapter 5, "Know you not that you are the light of that uh uh you are the light that a city set on a hill cannot be hid, neither do men light uh a candle and put it uh under a bushel, but on a candlestick that it may give light to all that are in the house." So you can take each aspect of of the sanctuary, the the table of showbread, the altar of incense, the the seven branch candlestick, the ark of the covenant, and apply it in five different dimensions.

But we're keeping it simple. We're keeping it simple for this just for the sake of of understanding the entire context of uh the the photo theology palace. So the fourth dimension would be the church dimension. All of us together as lively stones make up the house of God, the tabernacle of God, the body of Christ. And then there's a fifth dimension. Hebrews chapter 8:9 tells us that there is a heavenly sanctuary in which Christ is dwelling. Now, so what what you see here is that what you begin to understand is whoa, most people only read the Bible in two dimensions.

The literal dimension, what does this verse literally mean? And then this the third dimension, what does it mean to me? Not even how is it how can I see myself in the text, but just what does it mean to me? So even in that third dimension, they're not actually taking it to the to the level of, oh, I didn't know, you know, I didn't never thought about I am the temple of the Holy Ghost. So this room demonstrates then that you can read the entire Bible in the first dimension. What is the text literally saying?

And then read the entire Bible in the second and then in the third and then in the fourth and then in the fifth. And if you only had this one room, if you only learned this one room, it would already amplify your study beyond what you could imagine. But you guys, this is only one room. That's just one. There are 32 different rooms in the photo theology system. And so what that means is that I can take one verse and basically walk it through each room. I might find something powerful in the second dimension on the in the dimension room and then go to the to the fifth floor and drop it in a room there and see something else that just goes, "Oh, wow."

And then say, "Wait a minute. Let me take this back to the dimensions room and now apply the fourth dimension to this. Oh man, that just opened up a whole new discussion, a whole new train of thought that I was not even thinking before, that I've never even pursued before. Now you can begin to see the power of this palace and of this system. Um, many of you have heard me share this story before, being in a mall with my friends. I was about 18 years old at the time and there they had just I guess they had just come out with these pictures um and they're called magical eye pictures.

Magical eye pictures. And the the the the idea behind these pictures is when you look at it, all you see are a bunch of zigzag lines that seem to have no p no pattern. know it just looks like mess of an artwork of artwork. It's just it just there's no rhythm or rhyme to it. And I remember seeing this picture for the first time and going why is everybody so because there was a group of people around and they were like whoa whoa look at this picture look oh my and I'm looking at them like y'all are crazy.

What are y'all looking at? And someone says to me you got to do this thing with your eyes. You got to you got to cross your eyes. you got to cross your eyes and I began to cross my eyes. And I remember exactly how I did it, but all of a sudden that picture that looked like it made no sense became like a 3D image. And when I moved, the picture moved and now my mind was blown. I was like, "What in the world?" I was losing my mind. Many of us when we come to the Bible and we're reading stories in the Bible, we're reading chapters in the Bible.

For many of us, it is like reading zigzag lines. We are unable to see the beauty that is laying beneath the surface. We're unable to see the beauty laying beneath the text. However, if we learn to cross our eyes, I want you to catch what I'm saying, you guys. If we learn to cross our eyes, in other words, if we learn that the focus of scripture is Jesus and that we should be looking for Jesus on every page of the Bible, much like those Waldo books that many of you remember as a child, trying to find Waldo on the page, knowing he was there, not knowing he was there, But not knowing exactly where he was, the intrigue of those books was, I got to find Waldo because I know he's here.

Jesus said, "Search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me." Meaning that Jesus, beloved, is the very center and focal point of all the Bible. That goes for Leviticus, that goes for Genesis, that goes for Numbers. Let me let me just give you a quick Genesis. When we say look for Jesus in the Bible, most people are going to jump to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, not realizing that Jesus is the light of the world. Jesus is the water of life.

Jesus is the first fruits that came out of the ground on the third day. Jesus is the son of righteousness. Jesus is the fisher of men. Jesus is the man made in the image of God. Jesus says, "Come unto me and I will give you rest." In other words, in those seven days of creation found in Genesis chapter 1 and two, we find shadows and symbols of Christ already. Which means then that the Genesis creation account is a snapshot of how God recreates us in his image. Why? Because before Christ comes into our life, our life is without form and void and in darkness.

Photo theology is teaching you how to see the Bible in pictures. You've heard the term a picture is worth a thousand words. Well, this principle of looking at the Bible and yes, the words are important, but also understanding that as we learn to convert the words into images, as we learn to convert the stories into pictures, we begin to see matches, we begin to see the scripture jump out at us in a way that is just absolutely mind-blowing. and so this is what the class is about. I'm going to give you one more example, then I'm going to put the link up for the class because the class begins uh this Sunday, that is two days from now.

It is not going to be a huge class. I want to keep the class small so that the teacher student ratio is good, that nobody gets lost in the mix. but today you guys, I'm I'm not going to tell you what book I was studying because that's part of the surprise for the sermon tomorrow. But last between last night and today, I saw something that just blew my mind. Part of it I have seen before, which blew my mind. But this other part of it, I was just like, what in the world? And so I'm preaching a sermon tomorrow entitled J a letter to Judas.

and the third angel's message. Now, you got to think that, huh? A letter to Judas and the third a letter in the Bible to Judas. Pastor, there's no letter in the Bible to Judas. But for those of you who tune in tomorrow, who are able to watch tomorrow, and even if you can't watch that, if you've watched my other sermons, if you watched my blueprint presentation, if you've watched my back to basics series, uh we just finished a a Daniel in 7 days course um uh last week in which our students went on a journey through the book of Daniel and saw things that they have never seen before, but came out of that class more rooted and grounded in our understanding of the book of Daniel.

Nothing new, nothing new, just seeing it in a new perspective and a new light. How would you like to always open the scriptures and see those zigzag lines become 5D images? How would you like to have that happen every time you open the Bible? How would you like to get a special pair of photo theology glasses? And I'm speaking symbolically here, but when you put those photo theological glasses on, those photo theology glasses on, you're able to see the scripture in a light and in a way that amplifies the truth that we already have.

That is the goal of this photo theology class. So, I'm going to put the link in the chat and also I'm going to put it up on the screen. So, for those of you who still want to join the class, the class I'm going to tell you this, the class is already almost full. It's already almost full. So, um, we have space for I'm not going to say a few more people. We have space for more people, but I need to cut it off at a certain point. So, um, we're going to put the link in the the link is up on the screen, myfototheology.com.

We will also put it in the link in the chat. So, you can click on the link and uh the class begins, as I said, Sunday. It will go seven days beginning Sunday evening, 700 p.m. Central Standard Time. after that class is done uh it'll be a week a week break and then we're going into our revelation for seven days. Um we will then repeat. So my Daniel in seven days course is coming back up again. It will be I will be teaching it again uh within the next six weeks. So look out for that. If you miss this Daniel course, you can take the next one coming up.

But uh that's it guys. Um, we're going to close it out right here. Um, again, the link is in the chat. It is also uh on the on the screen for you to to go to if you want to get into that class. And I promise you um you will come out of that class seeing the Bible in an absolutely powerful new way. Nothing new, but the same old truth of the three angels messages simply amplified a thousandx. That's my promise to you. All right, guys. That's it. May God bless you. Hope to see you in the class and uh have a happy upcoming Sabbath.

And for those of you that want to tune in tomorrow to hear this message, a letter to Judas and the third angel's message, don't miss it, y'all. Living Mana online, uh 12:00 p.m. Central Standard Time after our Sabbath school. Uh you're not going to you're not going to want to miss it. Again, may God bless you and uh have a happy Sabbath.